The tariffs could definitely create some
inflationary headwinds.
>> The effects of the tariffs are actually
going to take some time.
>> We will not start seeing the inflation
effects until a few more months down the
road.
>> It's still too early for us to really to
start to see a wave of inflation.
>> The risk to us is that we see a more
persistent impact of inflation. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, earning season begins.
This hour, JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond
kicking off earnings season on Wall
Street. As investors look for any signs
that trade policy is fueling higher
consumer prices, the president is
calling for the Federal Reserve to drop
interest rates to 1%. A big morning
coming up.
>> The reason why this morning is so
important is because people have been
looking for concrete evidence of what
the ramification for tariffs will be.
Will we get it? Remains to be seen. That
said, we've got the one-two punch.
First, you get the corporate earnings
from the big banks. You can make an
argument. Okay, corporate earnings very
important. However, are banks
representative of the rest of corporate
America. If you are concerned about
that, you can move on to the CPI report
that we get on 8:30. And do you see the
inflationary impacts from tariffs really
hitting consumers?
>> 3 months ago, Jamie Diamond said this.
Maybe when we do this call next quarter,
we won't be guessing. 3 months later,
feels like we're still guessing.
>> Well, we're still guessing because we do
not have the deals that the
administration promised. And what
they've done is move the timeline out.
So now everyone is talking about August
1st. Can they get all these deals done
in the next two and a half weeks? Jamie
Diamond also last week said,
"Unfortunately, I think there's
complacency in the markets in reaction
to tariff news." One thing we did learn
since liberation day on April 2nd, is
that there was this idea of the Trump
put. So, the markets do think that what
Trump sees reaction in the market,
whether it's the bond market or the
equity market, pushing back on his
policy, that he will reverse course. And
that is why when he comes out with some
of these new sky-high numbers that
mirror April 2nd, the market shrugs it
off.
>> The support this morning is coming from
one single name. Check out Nvidia.
Nvidia in the pre-market higher by 5%.
This statement from this company filing
applications to sell the Nvidia H20 GPU
again into China. The US government has
assured Nvidia that licenses will be
granted.
>> This is a dramatic reversal from this
administration. We need to remember this
chip was designed when Biden was in
power and they were trying to make sure
they could have a chip that would be
compliant with export controls under the
Biden administration. So they came up
with this H20 and then in April because
of national security concerns, the Trump
administration says you can no longer
send that chip to China. And now what
we've seen after meeting with the
president and Jensen Wang right now is
in Beijing, a reversal. And Nvidia is
saying that they have these asurances
that they can start sending that chip
once again to China.
>> This is emblematic of 2025 and of the
whipsaw that we have seen both in
expectations for tariffs in expectations
for sectors in expectation for
bifurcations and then not for
bifurcations within the tech sector
globally. If you look at stock investors
exposure to equities that are attached
to tech companies, they have increased
the most over the past few months since
March 2009. This according to the Bank
of America fund manager survey and it
just shows how this flipping and this
flopping is reflected in some of the
positioning.
>> Things are getting toppy according to
that fund manager survey. Check this
out. The biggest surge in profit
optimism since July 2020. Cash levels
falling to 3.9% across the board here.
That is one heck of a bullish survey
from Bank of America this morning.
>> Conditioned by experience. How many
times have corporate uh corporations set
the bar incredibly low and then just
leaped over them and shown how uh well
they are able to really handle this? We
heard from Delta things are stable. If
you hear that from the rest of corporate
America, people are more concerned about
getting in than they are about some sort
of riskoff move. Even that Bank of
America survey that was signaling sell
in certain parts, they're not saying
sell. They're just saying rotate because
ultimately it has been a fool's errand
to try to time this market or bet
against it.
>> Futures this morning doing better, up a
third of 1% on the S&P 500. Coming up
this hour, Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth ahead of this morning's inflation
data. Michael Froman of the Council on
Foreign Relations as Europe prepares to
retaliate and Gerard Cassidy of RBC as
JP Morgan kicks off bank earnings. We
begin this hour with stocks rising as
investors await bank earnings and the
latest read on inflation. Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth writing the
following. Investors are feasting on a
buffet of reasons to look through tariff
headlines. There are reasons to see this
as rational, but also reasons to see
this as complacent and risky. Cameron
joins us now for more. Cameron, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Got to pick one, I'm afraid. What is it?
Complacent or rational?
>> So, we think that the the reasons for
rationality make sense in the short term
because certainly we've seen the track
record of Trump over the course of the
last couple of months really using
tariffs as a negotiating tool and saying
that that's not policy destiny. and
you've seen very little impact to the
data or earnings from tariffs, but we're
not sure if that sticks. We do know
about Trump that he likes tariffs and
the more that markets rally, the more
that he's emboldened to stick with these
higher tariff rates. And on the data
front, we simply think it's going to
take time for this to show itself in the
data, whether we're thinking about
inflation, growth data, and really on
earnings. earnings. We have the dynamic
of a big inventory pull forward things
like FIFO accounting going back to CFA
level one. That that dynamic means that
we're simply not seeing it pass through
to company earnings yet. And it might be
more of a thirdarter dynamic versus
something that we're going to experience
this week.
>> Something for everyone this morning. In
about 40 minutes time, numbers from JP
Morgan. Later on this morning at 8:30,
CPI data. If you had to pick one this
morning, what are you more focused on?
The earnings or the data? I'm more
interested in the reaction to the
earnings, not necessarily the earnings
themselves. I think that it is very much
consensus that we're going to get beats
and raises. After all, the average is
80% of companies do beat on earnings,
and expectations are pretty high on a
buy side whisper number that you're
going to see beats and raises. I think
the more the bigger surprise could come
on the CPI side of things. And this is
where we could see a dynamic where the
overall CPI stays somewhat healthy or
muted, but underneath the surface, we
start to see evidence of the tariffs
start to to come through in the goods
line of things. So overall CPI dampened
by things like shelter inflation coming
down. But then you see that evidence of
tariffs working its way through the good
side of things and it's a question of
what does the Fed do with that which
really points me toward what the
market's done with this since the last
CPI print that we got on uh on June
11th. You can see that yields are
basically the same place. People are
pricing in a lot of the same in the bond
market. It's been incredibly stable and
yet the stock market is up 4%. What's
changed since the last CPI report? Yeah.
Um, other than that, positioning
continues to chase higher. We think that
that has been the key driver of the
market rally and the reason why equities
have been able to defy all odds and
continue to make new highs. But as
you're starting to see with that BFA
fund manager survey, you're starting to
see in the Deutsche Bank consolidated
positioning, that positioning is no
longer underweight. Sentiment is no
longer bearish. We're now in a bullish
position. Positioning looks to be
somewhat neutral. So maybe not at the
point yet where it is an outright
headwind, but certainly less of a
tailwind than it has been.
>> How representative are the big banks of
corporate America? How much do they
actually set a tone at a time where
they're increasingly dancing to their
own music?
>> Yeah, I think that there's a certain
microcosm of course they touch all the
industries in the US and so if we were
thinking that there was going to be an
economic downturn, these are after all
very cyclally oriented companies. So, if
the economy was truly rolling over,
banks would not be at a new all-time
high. So, this is a cyclical endorsement
to see banks trading so strong. But
there's a lot of idiosyncratic things
going on with banks. There's questions
about regulatory relief and capital
relief. You also have questions about if
we see an M&A, an IPO defrosting, that
could certainly boost earnings. I think
the thing to watch with banks is you're
trading at 1.5 times book. That is the
high end of the range that banks have
traded at in the post great financial
crisis period. So either valuations are
hitting a ceiling or we are going into
some grand new paradigm where you're
seeing valuations be able to trade much
higher than that.
>> The concern is tariff uncertainty even
for banks. At the same time tariffs have
created volatility have created a
tremendous amount of opportunity for
these banks. Aren't they going to ink a
ton of money this quarter? Well,
certainly I think the expectation is
that you are going to see big beats and
raises and the estimates are fairly low
on the sell side. It's just for low
singledigit type of growth. I think it
all comes back to on the tariff side of
things is that a hundred billion of
tariff revenue have been raised. That's
a run rate of over $300 billion for the
year. The question is who is paying it?
We don't know. We do know the evidence
so far is that it's not exporters.
Otherwise, you would see it in import
prices. So there is somebody in this
economy that is paying for that hundred
billion in tariffs. We think it is
effectively within corporate margins.
You're not seeing as much of a pass
through yet to the end consumer, but
companies have the ability to block and
tackle and kind of push out some of
those cost dynamics and not necessarily
see it at earnings this quarter.
>> How hard is it to unwind the actual
impact of tariffs when Trump has not
finalized the final rates? Well, it's
certainly uncertain and and I think that
that's one of the reasons why this
market is just so willing to look
through it for lack of evidence. Why
price it in? And so there is this
expectation that maybe you will see some
headwind, but by the time you get to the
point that you're actually seeing it in
the numbers, we'll move on to the next
issue. But that's where we think that
there is a certain degree of complacency
simply because estimates are for a big
acceleration in earnings in 2026 as well
to low double digits. We've had
something like four four soft unexpected
CPI reads in this country over the
previous four months. Can we make it
five at 8:30 Eastern time?
>> The range of estimates for economists
goes from 0.1% month over month to 0.4%
month over month. So it gives you a
sense of meh. We don't know. How many
ways can you say we have no clue which
way this is going? Huh? Okay, got it.
And that's sort of where we're at right
now. Even if it's softer, we've got a
bunch of people still saying, "We're
working through pre-tariff inventory,
and this is noise, not signal,
>> and it's being absorbed by the fact that
you've got pre-written contracts with
certain pricing put in there." So, how
do you understand when we have some sort
of final read on the ramifications from
tariffs that haven't been inked yet, and
this is sort of the certainty people are
looking for? Well, good luck because
hopefully we'll get some, but you know,
I wouldn't hold my breath.
>> Chairman Pal's in a tough spot.
>> Does he just keep waiting?
We think that that's the best move until
the employment data shows some sign of
weakness. We think that they do wait
that the uncertainty about the future
path of inflation keeps them in a
holding pattern because if you don't see
inflation this month, it may be coming
in July. And if you see this resilience
in the labor market and I would add to
that resilience within overall assets,
financial conditions are still in very
easy levels. This is not an equity
market or a credit market that is
screaming at you to cut interest rates
immediately because it needs help.
>> Cameron Dawson of New Edge Wealth. Good
to see you. Thank you, Cam. Appreciate
it. Your guide book for this morning. In
about 35 minutes time, we should get
some numbers from JP Morgan. Expecting
that at about 6:45 Eastern. Later on
after that, the data 8:30 Eastern time
in between this conversation right here,
7:00 a.m. Eastern time. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson live and
exclusive on Bloomberg surveillance.
It's going to be an interesting
conversation of course given the fact we
have a lot of economic data, earnings
coming out and this is the man who is in
charge of these trade negotiations and
he's headed off the end of this week to
Japan. This is a country that out of the
gates they thought they were going to be
able to ink a deal. They aren't. They
have an election coming up the end of
July, July 20th around the corner.
Potentially he's going there to
potentially see if they could get this
deal over the finish line.
>> Is it Kevin, Kevin, and Scott? That's my
question.
>> What about Chris? Yeah, Kevin, Kevin,
Chris, and Scott. But, you know, in
terms of the Kevin's, Chris and Scott,
because I was looking at the Bank of
America Marilyn Lynch survey, and they
actually think that Scott, a plurality
of all people think that Scott's the
front runner. He's going to say, I I
know what he's going to say. It's going
to be, I'm focused on the job that I
have at hand, etc., etc. But still, how
does it complicate things that his name
keeps getting bandied about when he's in
charge of selecting somebody? I think
the issue the president would have with
even if he really wanted Bessett to go
down the block and go to the Fed and the
other day when Trump was talking about
Powell, he looked at Scott in the
cabinet room and said, "I like you
better." Of course, he likes him better,
but can you imagine that hole that they
would have to fill at the Treasury
Department, this is the individual
that's leading the talks when it comes
to China. No one thinks that China trade
deal talks are going to h be done by the
end of the year. Be a massive hole to
fill for this administration.
>> I'm sure he's loving it. Wouldn't you
love it? Your name's associated with
being the Fed chair. You're the Treasury
Secretary.
>> Everyone calls you the one same person.
>> Oh, this is so difficult to deal with.
>> I can't handle it. I'm terrible. I can't
believe how loved I am.
>> Futures positive this morning by 4/10en
of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
>> Good morning, John. We start with a
check on Nvidia. Shares are up nearly 5%
in the pre-market. The company said it
would resume sales of its H20 chip in
China after the Trump administration
reversed earlier restrictions aimed at
limiting Beijing's AI ambitions. The
move could add billions to Nvidia's
revenue, restoring its ability to
fulfill orders it had written off as
lost due to those restrictions.
Meanwhile, the European Union is drawing
up retaliatory tariffs for US goods in
case the two sides don't reach a trade
deal. The list of American products is
worth $84 billion and includes Boeing
aircraft, cars, and bourbon. President
Trump said yesterday he is still open to
negotiating after announcing a 30% levy
on EU imports that will kick in on
August 1st. And China's economy grew
more than expected in the second
quarter, driven by frontloading and
strong exports to markets outside the
US. GDP expanded 5.2% 2% year-onear and
industrial output rose 6.8% in June from
a year earlier but a more pronounced
slowdown is likely in the months ahead
due to trade tensions and weak consumer
demand at home. Dr. Bloomberg brief John
>> Yahara. Thank you. More from Yahara
later this hour. And next on the
program, the president's open to talk.
>> The deals are made. There are no deals
to make. They would like to do a
different kind of a deal and we're
always open to talk. We are open to talk
including to Europe. In fact, they're
coming over. They'd like to talk.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Michael Froman of the Council on
Foreign Relations, live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Later this morning, 8:30 Eastern time,
CPI in America. Before that, a lot of
earnings, including this hour, numbers
from JP Morgan. Next hour, Wells Fargo.
After that, City in focus this morning
in the pre-market. One name. It's not a
bank, it's a tech firm. It's a mega cap
tech firm. It's Nvidia. Nvidia hire in
the pre-market off the back of this
statement. filing applications to sell
the NVIDIA H20 GPU once again. The US
government has assured Nvidia that
licenses will be granted. A surprise
earlier on this morning
>> and this is a huge part of Nvidia's
business and there was a big question
about how much uh their revenue is going
to go down as a result of not being able
to sell into China. Does that reverse?
All we know is the $4 trillion company
just got a little richer.
>> Stock is up by 5% in the pre-market.
Futures doing nicely off the back of
that. Positive by 0.4%. 4% under
surveillance this morning. The
president's open to talk.
>> Mr. President, you've praised European
countries today as standing up for
Ukraine as being strong. Will you uh
allow them to continue to negotiate
tariffs lower than 30%.
>> The deals are already made. The letters
are the deals. The deals are made. There
are no deals to make. They would like to
do a different kind of a deal. And we're
always open to talk. We are open to
talk, including to Europe. If in fact
they're coming over, they'd like to
talk. Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump signaled he's
willing to continue trade negotiations
while the EU finalizes a list of counter
measures targeting $84 billion in US
goods. Bloomberg's Mike Shepard joins us
now for more. Shep, welcome to the
program, sir. It looks like we've got
the list. The retaliation from Europe is
being prepared. How's the US responding?
>> Well, the US hasn't responded yet. This
kind of broke late in our time
yesterday. So, it'll take a little bit
of time for US trade officials here to
kind of gather it. It's not coming
entirely as a surprise. Uh the European
Union has signaled, you know, pretty
openly that it would take counter
measures if it could not reach a deal
with the US that would avert some of the
heavier tariffs that Trump is promising.
Now, when the president says that he is
open to talk, European officials are
increasingly concerned that it's a
one-way conversation. And as you heard
the president say, for him the deals are
the letters that he has posted on his
truth social platform warning countries
of and trading partners like the EU of
the tariffs that they should expect if
they can't somehow come to better terms
with the US by this August one deadline.
Now, what does that mean for the EU?
They have been anticipating uh at least
a baseline tariff of 10%. And that is
something that EU officials, including
here in Washington, have signaled that
that might be something that they could
live with. The higher 20% tariff that
Trump had indicated could be coming with
a new list that was beginning to
circulate last week of uh levies that
would be imposed on countries uh and
trading partners around the world. They
could negotiate perhaps around that. But
the 30% level in the president's letter
over the weekend, that's an eyewatering
level that would really be an impediment
to trade. And we heard that from Marco
Sephovvic himself. He is the European
trade negotiator and he will be
discussing this further with US
counterparts to see if they can somehow
reach some uh solution uh to this impass
that is beginning to take shape and
worrying producers in the European Union
as well as customers here in the US
about the potential for our higher cost
there. John Shep just quickly just an
example of how quickly things can change
down in the nation's capital. This
U-turn on Nvidia, you've been tracking
this story, I know. What's your reaction
to what we've heard from that company
overnight?
>> Well, you know, it's funny. Uh, last
week, Jensen Wong was in Washington to
meet with President Donald Trump. We
don't know what was said behind closed
doors, but it's certain that he was
offering the same message to the
president in private that he has been
making publicly that US export controls
don't work and that they are impeding
Nvidia's ability to serve as essentially
the American tech stack for the world as
other nations and other markets pursue
artificial intelligence. This is the
area that uh Nvidia has carved out uh
for itself as a leader with its uh
groundbreaking chips. uh but it has not
been able to sell many of those AI chips
in China at all thanks to US
restrictions. And Jensen Wong, the CEO,
has warned that seeding the China market
and walking away from it simply hands it
over to Huawei Technologies, its top
Chinese rival and one that could also
make inroads in other markets around the
world. John, that stock is up by 4.9% in
the pre-market. Chef, appreciate your
time. Mike Shepard there on two stories,
the relationship with Europe and the
so-called U-turn on Nvidia and some of
the chips they sell into China. Joining
us now to discuss, Michael Froman, the
president of the Council on Foreign
Relations. Michael, welcome to the
program, sir. Just want to pick up on a
line that you've said recently. We
sometimes forget that other countries
have politics, too. How do the politics
of Europe influence the negotiations
over the next few weeks?
>> Well, I think that's the right question
because uh Europe has its backup. that's
not used to being treated this way by
the United States. And they've gone back
to their their usual uh approach of
trying to find products that they think
are particularly sensitive both
economically, but also politically in
the United States. So, bourbon from
Kentucky and Boeing from uh from across
the United States that they'll put
tariffs on in order to to retaliate
against the uh the US. The question is,
President Trump has said if a country
retaliates, he'll simply add the
retaliatory tariffs on top of the
tariffs he's interested in imposing. So
the 30 could go to 40 or 50 or 60. At
some point, it doesn't matter. You get
above around 50% tariffs, the trade is
prohibited, and you're not going to
bring in anything at all uh at all from
that that market. And that's the risk
that we face if they can't reach uh a
real deal, not a unilateral letter, but
a real deal negotiated between the two.
So Brussels is looking at US sensitive
political pockets potentially for their
retaliation. But what about the politics
within Europe? Can the European Union
really cajol all their members to get on
board with one framework and one deal
with the United States?
>> It's really hard. I mean the the the
competence for trade policy lies with
the European Commission, not with the
member states. But if major countries
object to what the commission wants to
do in terms of imposing retalatory
tariffs, it's very hard for the
commission to move forward. And as you
said, there is a a division. Uh some are
more willing to to engage in a trade war
with the United States. Others are
trying very hard not to escalate uh
tensions and those differences have to
be worked out in Brussels. I think
President Trump has probably made it
easier for them because u the 30%
proposal over the weekend has really
galvanized opposition. They were already
angry, but as as your previous uh guest
said, they sort of got used to the idea
that they might have to pay 10% tariffs,
that they might have to reduce some of
their tariffs. I think the question is,
what are they willing to do in a real
deal? Are they willing to address some
of the regulatory issues that have
become um an irritant in the
relationship around the digital economy,
digital services, uh etc. around data,
uh governance? Um are they willing to
reduce tariffs? Oh, that's the easiest
issue where they have higher tariffs
than we do. We have a 2 and a half%
tariff on cars. They have a 10% tariff
on cars. There's no reason why they
shouldn't reduce their tariffs to to our
level. Um, but the question is whether
the Europeans can get their act
together, as you said, and put together
a proposal that's compelling for the
president.
>> Speaking of politics, there's an
election in Japan in 5 days, but the
Treasury Secretary is going there at the
end of the week. Do you think after this
election it will be a pathway for Tokyo
and Washington to strike a deal?
>> You know, I think the Japanese hope that
they could strike a special relationship
with the United States given the
security issues at stake right now in
the region, given their cooperation on
on so many issues regarding uh regarding
China, regarding Ukraine uh over the
over the last several years that did not
happen. Uh I don't know how much
depending on what happens with the
election, I don't know how much a change
in government, if there is a change, um
is going to really affect their position
in these negotiations. I think they've
just got to come to terms that they're
going to face higher tariffs coming into
the US. The problem, of course, is
notwithstanding all the Japanese
investment uh in the United States,
including in the auto sector, uh they
still import a lot of autos into the US
and auto parts, and those are now being
talked about to be 25% uh tariffs or
higher. And so, uh, that is, uh, going
to be a real burden on them and they're
going to have to figure out whether they
can invest more in the United States and
how quickly they can invest more to
avoid, uh, meeting those kinds of
tariffs.
>> Michael, always appreciate your time.
Michael Froman there, the president of
the Council on Foreign Relations, just
on the Japanese election might not
influence the outcome of trade talks.
Certainly shaking up this bond market in
Japan. You have deficits that have been
climbing and you've got politicians
promising tax cuts and that is a toxic
mix, toxic brew for all of the bond
vigilantes out there
>> with fixed income worldwide. Up next on
the program, bank earnings just around
the corner. Gerald Cassidy of RBC.
[Music]
Starting the week in positive territory
just about Monday at the close positive
by a little more than a tenth of 1%.
This morning we add some weight to the
rally up another 4/10en of 1%. Nvidia in
focus. We'll get to that name in just a
moment. It's given the NASDAQ a lift up
0.6% in early trading. In the bond
market, 2-year, 10year, 30-year, a
little bit snoozy going into CPI later
on this morning at 8:30 Eastern time.
Bond yields coming in at the long end
down by two basis points on 10s and on
30s. Anything but snoozy over in Japan.
Check out the long end of the curve.
Just want to look at 30s. 30-year yields
now through 3%. They were 100 basis
points lower last summer. Big changes in
Japan.
>> And it's a big change with respect to
the political appetite to incur more
debt at a time when a quarter of their
annual budget is set aside currently for
refinancing debt that was issued at
those lower rates and now have these
higher rates. Meanwhile, they've got
politicians promising tax cuts and
they're actually gaining in popularity.
Raises a question. Everyone wants the
privilege to act recklessly. used to say
in the United States they took advantage
of that and now the rest of the world
has to pay the bill because ultimately
there is less appetite among debt
investors to absorb that and to accept
some of the recklessness
>> to quote the bond strategist in the
white house things have gone a little
bit yippy at the long end of the curve
and not just aside but worldwide
>> arguably more so worldwide and arguably
more so because now suddenly there's a
reckoning what does the rest of the
world do with US tariffs and the
requirement that they spend more on a
number of provisions in order to appease
the president. That's causing some of
the concerns and some of the desire to
really raise more more money through
debt sales.
>> The Treasury Secretary of the United
States about 30 minutes away, a
conversation with Scott Besson on this
program at 7 a.m. Eastern time. 3 hours
away from the cash open. Let's get you
some morning movers, including Nvidia.
Here's Danny Burger. Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. We start there. And it really
is doing the heavy lifting for this
equity market this morning. Nvidia in a
blog post saying that it would resume
the sale of its H20 chips to China in
about face from the Trump administration
and we don't yet have confirmation from
the commerce department. Even so, this
would add billions in revenue back into
Nvidia shares higher by 5% easily will
be at a new record if it opens up at
this current price. Now, elsewhere, MP
Materials, this is a US-based rare earth
company. Reports suggest that Apple will
be investing $500 million into MP
materials. This also seems to be a nod
to the Trump administration, which wants
apples to source more from the US. As
part of this, they're also going to be
building a rare earth facility in Texas.
So, MP Materials up 10 and a3% in the
pre-market trade. Now, speaking of
investments, also got an announcement of
a big one coming from the AI data
company Cororeweave. Up to $6 billion.
They will be investing in a new data
center in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
Shares are up 8%. They say there is more
demand, so they need to meet that
supply. They should have the first 100
megawws available for customers to use
in 2026. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate it. Here's
the latest this morning. The numbers
from JP Morgan dropping early. If you
want the cheat card, I'll keep it short.
BB beat
something like that. Bloomberg Shanali
Basak has more. Hey, Shanali.
>> So many beats. John, you're looking at
JP Morgan coming in strong. Interesting
to see a healthy rise in the stock
pre-market off the heels of these
earnings given the stock price
appreciation so far. You have a lot of
promise here in credit quality. This is
something when we kick off bank earnings
season, a lot of investors will be
focusing on how much are they really
factoring in about the weakness of the
consumer. And right now in the numbers
alone, you don't really see it. You also
see a lot of promise when it comes to
those trading figures. a strong beat on
the fixed income trading and also a beat
here when it comes to efficiency.
Efficiency is something we'll be
watching across all the banks because
you are seeing compensation costs rising
as activity rises back again and
investment banking and trading and also
as net interest margins were expected to
come under pressure. But right now we're
seeing a lot of health at the start of
bank earning season.
>> The numbers are looking good. We're
expecting a boom in trading numbers.
Brammo, we got that and some from JP
Morgan. You got that with fixed income
sales and trading revenue coming out in
at $5.69 billion versus the estimate of
5.2 billion. That's a beat there. Guess
what? It's also a beat uh when it comes
to equities sales and trading revenue.
Oh, guess what? Even net charge offs is
lower than a lot of people were
expecting. I love this. Jamie Diamond
saying that the US economy remained
resilient in the quarter. So the person
who is saying people are getting overly
complacent is seeing reason maybe for
that optimism in terms of the economic
activity underpinning some of these
results.
>> The man at the top of the bank says
significant risk persist including from
tariffs and from trade. Chanali, we've
got to get a look at the outlook as
well. What are expectations for the
outlook on net interest income for the
year ahead? Uh
>> they're looking pretty good so far.
Remember when we are looking at um the
problem here is the the the fact that
interest rates might decline at some
point this year. Of course, there is a
lot of uncertainty around that, but
there are a lot of questions here in
terms of how much JP Morgan will
actually be able to squeeze out of that
consumer in the credit card books.
Remember, when you look at Federal
Reserve data, they have actually uh
declined when it comes to balances
across the street. So, we are looking at
strong numbers here across the board.
It's but managed interest income for the
quarter, I don't know if you noticed
this, John, that's actually below
expectations right now. So, uh, we'll
see ultimately how it pans out through
the end of the year.
>> Stay close, Shanali. We'll come back to
you in just a moment. Shanali Basik
there of Bloomberg off the back of the
numbers from JP Morgan out just moments
ago. A beat across the board here.
Everywhere you look for equities and
sales, trading, revenue to fixed sales
and trading as well. Just the guidance
coming from JP Morgan's Jamie Diamond.
Think about what he said 3 months ago.
Maybe when we do this call next quarter,
we won't be guessing. Fact of the matter
is we're still guessing. But maybe this
story is just less relevant given the
resilience of this economy so far.
>> And it's not just the economy. It's also
there does seem to be enough certainty
among corporations for them to start
doing deals again. He said that
investment banking activity started slow
but gained momentum. This is what we're
hearing across the board. So yes, maybe
there isn't full certainty, but the
certainty that they have certainly is
positive enough to uh continue with a
pretty rosy outlook. stock is up in a
pre-market by 1.3%. To extend the
conversation, joining us now, Gerald
Cassidy of RBC. Gerard, you've had a
look at the numbers. Your first take,
please.
>> Jonathan, I think as you pointed out,
the numbers were very strong across the
board. Even when you exclude the
one-time item that they identified,
earnings came in better than expected.
And you guys have highlighted some of
the key areas. One particular area that
I thought was interesting was the
provision for credit losses was lower in
the prior quarter. Chinali pointed out
net charge off had fallen. So credit is
quite strong and this is a good read
through to not just the other money
center banks but also the regional banks
and as you guys have highlighted
investment banking numbers came in
better than expected and the trading
numbers particularly fit better than
expected.
>> J I'm pleased you picked up on the
provision for credit losses. Just
compare what the bank is doing to what
the bank CEO is saying. Jamie Diamonds
talked about complacency in markets. At
the same time, provision for credit
losses is lower than expected. Do I
listen to one thing and ignore the
other?
>> John, good point. Uh, but to Diamond's
credit, he's always a individual that is
looking over his shoulder, looking
around corners to make sure that this
company is well positioned should there
be any surprises on the horizon. He he
never rarely gets overly optimistic on
credit. So on one hand, yes, we need to
listen to what he says, but the numbers
speak for themselves and credit is very
healthy, not only for JP Morgan, but for
the industry as well.
>> Gerard, what do you make of the idea
that we don't really have certainty with
respect to tariffs? Many policies still
very much up in the wind and yet it
seems like corporate America, as
reflected at least by JP Morgan and
Delta, have reflected a certain level of
confidence. Do you see that reflected in
other banks and other rhetoric that
we're hearing?
>> Lisa, it's a good point because when you
think about when they reported first
quarter results, it obviously was in
April, right at the height of the
uncertainty on tariffs. There's less
uncertainty today. I think everybody has
resigned themselves to the fact that
tariffs are going to stay in place and
prices will be higher. But so far, even
though I know the tariffs haven't worked
their way through inflation, the
inflation numbers seem to be in check,
which has given more people maybe a
false sense of confidence, but certainly
more confidence today that the tariffs
are not going to cause what many people
were thinking about in April, a
recession. You might remember many
economists listed the probability of a
recession this year, and now they're
reversing that. And that's showing up in
some of these banks. And I think you're
going to hear other banks talk very
similarly to what JP Morgan is showing
today.
>> How much is a steepening yield curve
which we've talked about so much with
reflection of what this means for the US
government's credibility, what this
means for inflation, etc. How much is
that benefiting the banks beyond what a
lot of people have been expecting?
>> It's it's so important that investors uh
fully embrace a steeper yield curve. And
when you think about even if the Fed
cuts 25 50 basis points this year and
brings the Fed funds rate down to just
under 4% let's call it and if the 10ear
stays anchored at 4 and 1/2 four and 3/4
that's a positive slope obviously it's
been 20 years Lisa that we've seen a Fed
funds rate over 3% with a positive slope
to the curve. That's very positive for
banks net interest margins as they
repric deposits lower. However, asset
yields will increase as they renew those
securities and loans made back in 2020
and 2021 at much lower yields. So,
that's very positive.
>> Jared, last time around, the banks got a
pass on these earnings calls, they got
to pass because we were seeing immense
policy volatility for the month of
April. When they get on these calls a
little bit later, Wells Fargo, City, JP
Morgan, the big banks again tomorrow and
the day after, do they get a pass this
time around?
It's going to be interesting, John,
because I think we're going to be
focused on the second half of the year
and what it means going into 2026. We
also have to remember, I think you're
going to hear uh quite a bit of
discussion about the regulatory outlook.
you saw the stress test results which
were quite positive for all the big
banks and I and now we're expecting a
much um watered down Basel 3 endgame
which is the final capital um regulation
that the banks will have to adhere to
when that comes out probably in the
fall. So I think not so much a pass but
a real keen interest on what the second
half brings particularly with loan
growth and what the outlook might be for
next year. Jared, stick with us. That
name is down in the pre-market now by
just a tenth of 1% off the back of a
stunning rally through the month of
April, May, June, and into July. We've
had a move of something like 40% off the
lows of the KPW bank index. So, a lot
baked in here. Expected a boom in
trading revenue off the back of the
volatility in the first month of the
second quarter. That was about the
second half. When they come out and as
you pointed out just yesterday and say
things like the pipelines are full,
we're ready to go. Are those plans
derailed or delayed? Well, and right now
Jamie Diamond is saying that a lot of
the investment banking activity is
gaining momentum. Can that be stalled?
Is that a reason for some of the
caution? Could something happen, say
another level of tariffs that causes
people to pull those deals? When you
take a step back, in some ways, these
big banks are a perfect microcosm of a
whole host of different trends. They
have to answer what companies are
getting in terms of conviction from some
of these tariffs. They also have to
answer how much efficiency they're
getting from artificial intelligence.
They I think are at the vanguard of the
technology trade as well and I hope that
that is something people really ask
questions about.
>> We got the B. Here's the race.
>> Yeah.
>> Here's the outlook from JP Morgan. Fully
year net interest income about 95.5
billion. They had seen 94.5.
I know we say this a few times but when
Jamie Diamond of JP Morgan comes out in
the weeks before earnings and talks
about complacency in markets and we sat
around this table and said what's he
going to do next week? Raise guidance.
What have they just done? Raise
guidance. Jaime Diamond is the
quintessential risk manager and he's
also somewhat politically minded. He is
trying to position himself in certain
ways to send messages to certain
political powers. It isn't necessarily a
reflection of the business. He has this
mantra where he'll come out and he'll
say, you know, if there's nuclear war,
JP Morgan will be fine. If there's all
the catastrophes in the world, JP Morgan
will withstand. And that's sort of his
mindset. So, it isn't necessarily
indicative of what they're doing in the
business.
>> The latest from JP Morgan this morning,
it's a beat and it's a raise. The stock
is positive by 1% in the pre-market with
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey yhara.
>> Good morning John. Fed chair Jay Powell
has asked the central bank's inspector
general to review the $2.5 billion
renovation of its Washington
headquarters. Some Republicans and Trump
appointees have criticized Powell for
cost overruns around the project. It's a
new line of attack as the president
continues to criticize Powell for not
cutting interest rates further.
Meanwhile, Apple is under increasing
pressure to rescue its struggling AI
efforts. Investors want the tech giant
to break with tradition by making a big
acquisition and going after top talent
more aggressively. The iPhone maker
shares have fallen over 16% this year,
lagging peers such as Meta, which as we
know is spending lavishly on AI.
And India's Civil Aviation Authority is
ordering an inspection of cockpit fuel
switches on Boeing 787s and 737s after a
report linked month's Air India crash to
a fuel cutoff. Operators must complete
the inspections within a week.
Investigators initial Air India crash
report says there's no evidence so far
needing action over the Boeing aircraft
or its GE aerospace engines. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara. Thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, earning season begins.
>> These banks are making gen returns on
tangible common equities in the mid-
teen range, high teen range. They're
generating they're generating value.
They're creating value right now. We're
more cautious on where stocks are
trading at.
>> Is that cautiousness warranted? It's a
beat and raise from JP Morgan. First out
the gate kicking off earnings season on
Wall Street. That stock is up by 0.8%.
Up next on the program, Wells Fargo just
around the corner.
[Music]
Starting this morning with a beaten from
JP Morgan. Decent guidance coming out of
Nvidia on what they can sell into China.
Stocks are higher, up a third of 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 by 0.6. Under
surveillance this morning, earning
season begins.
>> We're more cautious on where stocks are
trading at. Valuations are unattractive
given um the this you know still
elevated uncertainty on the macro side.
The deregulation side is certainly a
positive. These banks are making gen
returns on tangible common equities in
the mid- teen range, high teen range.
They're generating they're generating
value. They're creating value right now.
Just moments ago, numbers from JP Morgan
better than expected. That stock is
higher by 3/4 of 1%. Just seconds ago,
numbers from Wells Fargo, not so good
with the numbers. Here's Shanali Basak.
Hey, Shanali.
>> John. While you had JP Morgan with a
beat in a raise, you have Wells Fargo
with a miss and a staying in line when
it comes to net interest income. So you
do have remember JP Morgan also slightly
missed on net interest income for the
quarter. It's the outlook now. How much
more juice can you squeeze out of the
consumer? I had mentioned costs were
also going to be a big focus this
earning season I would say for Wells
Fargo. Interesting to see credit quality
is also really good. This is the really
good news for both JP Morgan and Wells
Fargo coming in better than
expectations. However, non-interest
expense, this is the expenses you have
control over coming in a little bit
higher than expected. The setup here was
that Wells Fargo was already trading at
a richer price to book ratio than you
had at Bank of America, for example.
There's a lot of promise in the stock
with the asset cap lifting. So now for
Charlie Sharf, it's a show me the money
story. They did miss on investment
banking as well. These are business
lines that they want to grow over at
Wells Fargo now that that asset cap is
lifted. So high bar now. Not everyone
can be JP Morgan. They came in at more
than a 20% return on tangible common
equity. No one thought that they would
get that this quarter. So can the rest
of the banks keep pace?
>> Shnaly Bass with the latest. Still with
us Cassidy of RBC. John Shanali repeated
a few times just on Wells Fargo. Is it a
new dawn for this bank with the lift of
the asset cap?
John, I I really do think it is a new
dawn for them and it's well said by you
because the lifting of the asset cap is
significant. This company has been stuck
in um asset cap prison if you will since
2018 when they signed the cease and
desist order with the Federal Reserve
and now that the asset cap is lifted,
the CND is not lifted yet, but the asset
cap will allow them to grow. In fact,
management has pointed out that one of
the areas that has been holding them
back is in the investment banking
capital markets business. So, we do
expect that to be the first area to
benefit from having the asset cap lifted
uh at this time.
>> That said, these results, the fact that
they missed expectations on several
different measures. Does it just show
that this is a winner takes all or
winner takes most economy with respect
to corporations, with respect to
households? just a sense that the big
are getting bigger.
>> I I think it's also shows that again
with the asset cap in place for almost
the entire quarter, you really need to
grow your balance sheet in this kind of
environment. And they of course cannot
do that now of now they will going
forward. And in fact, when you take a
look at, you know, going back to the JP
Morgan results, I thought I read that
loan growth was up 5% year-over-year.
and that helped them with their outlook
for their net interest revenue for 2025.
So, I think that it's very competitive,
of course, and it's really being able to
grow your balance sheet to help offset
any pressure that they may be
experiencing in their net interest
margin.
>> I guess to rephrase this, is JP Morgan
consolidating business from a lot of
other banks other than representative of
a globally good environment for banking?
And I say this at a time when we know
they've acquired assets from some of the
regional banks that had been struggling
and it does seem like there is an
advantage in size as well as just
footprint.
>> It it's interesting uh that size
certainly comes with economies of scale.
But one of the things we have to point
out with JP Morgan compared to Wells,
for example, is JP Morgan has a much
bigger consumer business driven by their
credit cards. And the return on equity
in their consumer business at JP Morgan
was an astounding 36%.
And that's what really drives the value
here. Bank America is close to JP Morgan
on the consumer side, but Wells is not
there yet because Wells doesn't really
have the presence in the credit card
business that JP Morgan has, which is a
very profitable business for the credit
card players.
>> Jared, later this morning, we'll hear
from City, then we'll get numbers from
Bank of America, from Goldman, from
Morgan Stanley through the week. Based
on what you've seen so far and what you
can read through the tea leaves for the
second quarter, what kind of bank do you
think does well in this environment and
what kind of bank is going to perform in
the year ahead?
I think John the banks that do well in
this environment are the ones that are
funded with cheap core consumer
deposits. When you look at a region's
financial which is a regional bank of
course and 30% of their deposits are
interest free and when you have levels
of deposits that high that you don't pay
interest on and the Fed funds rate is
obviously over 4% you could do quite
well. The other area that we're watching
is on credit. So the banks that show
good results on credit and both these
companies did that too would do well and
of course as you already have identified
the capital markets investment banking
business is important and the big money
center banks are the players there along
with of course Goldman and Morgan
Stanley
>> J the first reaction in markets isn't
always correct and today might be an
example of that because based on the the
tone of your conversation it seems like
you're more interested in what Wellelss
Fargo does in the year ahead than JP
Morgan. Even though JP Morgan increased
their expectations, their outlook and
Wells Fargo didn't. Am I getting that
right?
>> No, you certainly are getting that
right. And again, it was idiosyncratic,
of course, to Wells for having the asset
cap lifted. So, we really have to see
how they perform over the next 12
months. And ideally, I think you they're
going to show some good growth, which
they haven't been able to do because of
that asset cap. And that's not to take
anything away from JP Morgan's results
or the outlook for them as well, but it
seems to us that, you know, the real
upside potentially could come from Wells
Fargo when we're sitting here possibly a
year from now.
>> Hey Jared, appreciate your time. You're
going to stick with us. I'm pleased to
say we'll catch up with you a little bit
later this morning. Numbers from City
about an hour away. So far so good.
Numbers better than expected almost
across the board. Let's take JP Morgan.
Expected a boom in trading. Got one.
Better outlook. Got one. The surprise
beat in investment banking and fees
related to some of those activities I
think is indicative of maybe the cloud
starting to clear just a little bit
perhaps some renewed confidence in this
economy off the back of the resilience
we've seen over the past few months and
I think a lot of people at these banks
will hope that continues for the year
ahead. Jamie Diamond pointed to the one
big beautiful bill in Washington DC
passing and that that gave some
confidence to corporations of what at
least the tax and investment landscape
would look like going forward and maybe
that was enough for them to really pull
the trigger for them to see the
increase. Again, I want to see how much
they're consolidating business from
other banks and how much actually an
absolute this is an area that's picking
up.
>> Also, he noted the potential
deregulation for this continuous push
from the Trump administration to
deregulate in all parts really of the
economy. But he had a warning. Quote,
"Significant risks persist, especially
from quote tariffs and trade
uncertainty, worsening geopolitical
conditions, high fiscal deficit, and
elevated asset prices." When it comes to
tariffs, you hit the nail on the head.
Is anything different from April. It
isn't. We all want certainty, but the
market is just shrugging this off
because they think there's a threshold
that Trump will if potentially the
markets push back, he will unwind.
>> They've al always got a warning, right?
I'll freak out when Brian Moahan starts
to look worried on TV
>> because otherwise he's super direct,
right? Very calm. Everything's okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Jaime's running around saying clouds,
storms, all of those things. When Brian
starts to worry, I'm going to start to
worry.
>> Yeah. When Brian says, "My hair is on
fire." Well, we'll all duck.
>> There's a reason for it. Equity futures
right now in the S&P positive by a third
of 1%. In the next hour, the US Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson, Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods, Alaska Louu of
Bank of America, Matt Hornback of Morgan
Stanley. Next up, Scott Besson just
around a corner.
[Music]
There's so much in this market that is
really attractive.
>> If you're looking at kind of what's been
working in markets the last couple of
years, it's quality stock.
>> But we do favor large caps in particular
because of thatability.
>> What I think has surprised everybody,
ourselves included, is the sheer
resilience of the US corporate sector.
>> You're going to see a kind of beat and
raise scenario that is the next leg of
the market's driving higher.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
with equities close to all-time highs.
Equity futures on the S&P positive by
0.4% on the NASDAQ up by 0.6. Bank
earnings out just moments ago from JP
Morgan. It's a beat and a race.
>> Yeah, right now people are looking at
the potential for these banks to keep
making money not only from in uh
interest being uh significantly higher,
but also investment banking activity
coming back. And this really goes to the
difference between Jamie Diamond's
warnings of gloom and doom and the
reality of a beat and a raise, which is
what we just got.
>> It's 60 minutes time. Another read on
the banking sector on Wall Street. We'll
hear from City. Look out for that in 90
minutes time, 8:30 Eastern time. US
inflation data in focus.
>> This is going to be in focus especially
for the administration which has been
talking about the fact that inflation
has been coming down. We had four
consecutive prints of better inflation
numbers. Will we get a fifth today?
Equity futures this morning higher by
0.4%. Coming up this hour, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson ahead of
President Trump's August 1 tariff
deadline. Alaskaloo of Bank of America
on an excessively bullish global fund
manager survey and Matt Hornbach of
Morgan Stanley counting down to USCPI.
We begin this hour in Washington.
President Trump leaving the door open
for trade talks and piling on the
pressure for the Fed to cut interest
rates.
>> We're still willing to talk. Literally
every country wants to make a deal. We
have no inflation. Our stock market hit
record highs with no inflation. We
should be at 1%. Thanks as well to
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent who's
doing a fantastic job. He goes on
television and he calms the market. I go
on television, I rile the market.
>> It's time for some calm. Joining us now,
the 79th Secretary of the Treasury,
Scesson. Mr. Secretary, welcome to the
program. Sir, let's pick up on that
theme. not you calm in the markets, but
on inflation and where rates should be.
As Amarie pointed out, we've had a
string of softer than expected inflation
reads in this country. We've had four.
We might get five at 8:30 Eastern time.
Why do you believe that signal and not
noise?
>> Well, I mean, there there's some
persistence there, Jonathan. And look, I
I do have access to the the number the
night before, but when I'm coming on TV,
I don't look at it. So, I don't know
what the number is going to be at 8:30.
And I I wouldn't, you know, I I don't
know whether it's going to be down, up,
or flat, but I wouldn't put too much
emphasis on one number. I I think it's
the trend. And I think one thing that
Wall Street, a lot of economists, market
in general got wrong early on was that
tariffs were going to uh cause a
substantial price level rise, which just
hasn't happened. And there are some
people on the FOMC, the Federal Reserve,
still worried about the prospect of that
happening through the summer. We've all
sensed the frustration from the White
House across the administration with Fed
Chair Jay Powell. And a lot of
confusion, I think, at this point that
maybe we can address in this
conversation. Is firing the Federal
Reserve chair under active consideration
in the White House, in the Treasury, in
your administration?
>> Uh, President Trump said numerous times
he's not going to fire Jay Powell. uh
you know, he's working the refs. And you
know, I I've said before, I'm a
basketball fan. There are two schools of
working the refs. There's the Bobby
Knight school and there's the the Dean
Smith school. President Trump uh seems
to prefer the Bobby Knight school. And
I'll tell you, I went back over the
weekend and looked and Bobby Knight won
three NCAA championships. My hero Dean
Smith only won two. the NEC director,
Kevin Hasset, I'm not sure what you'd
call him, but he was asked over the
weekend, can the Fed chair be fired? He
said that's a thing that's being looked
into. How should we understand those
comments?
>> Uh, look, I I um and I will point out
Kevin was a collegiate basketball
player. Uh, and I I I think as President
Trump said, he he's not looking to fire
uh Chair Powell. And as I've said, I'm
not going to com I'm not going to
comment on future policy or future
mistakes the Fed will make. I'll only
comment on past mistakes. And look, they
they've had some big forecasting errors,
and this may be one now.
>> Is there a reason for not firing Kim?
And I asked that question because the
president's also said that his term is
about to expire in May of next year. Is
that the reason to ultimately just wait,
or is it something else? Are you
convinced by the negative consequences
associated with such a move?
>> Look, I I I think a an independent
central bank is very important for the
conduct of monetary policy and we we can
see that in in terms of the both the
financial markets, the term premium and
longerterm debt.
>> You said previously the interview
process would begin later on in the
fall. There's been plenty of speculation
as to whether that process would be
brought forward. Mr. Secretary, do you
still, as far as you understand, believe
that's when the interview process to
replace the Fed chair will begin in the
fall, or is a formal process already
started?
>> Well, look, there there's a formal
process that's already starting. There
there are a lot of great candidates, and
you know, we we'll see how rapidly it
progresses. It's President Trump's
decision, and it it will move at his
speed. Do you see any merit at all in
selecting maybe a candidate that's
already on the committee on the FCC
versus taking a look at someone outside
of the Federal Reserve?
>> Again, there are a lot of good
candidates inside and outside the
Federal Reserve. Jonathan,
>> has the chairman himself, the Fed chair
Jay Pal given you any indication
whatsoever as to what he would do once
his term has expired? Will he vacate his
seat as the governor at the Federal
Reserve?
Well, tra traditionally, uh, the the Fed
chair also steps down as a governor, and
there's been a lot of talk of a shadow
Fed chair causing confusion in advance
uh, of his or her nomination, and I can
tell you, I think it'd be very confusing
for the market for a former Fed chair to
stay on. Also,
>> Mr. Treasury Secretary, I'd love to talk
to you about what's going on in Invidia
this morning. Jensen Wang, the CEO, out
in a blog statement saying that the
company has quote provided an update to
customers, noting that Nvidia is filing
applications to sell the H20 GPU again.
The US government has assured the
company that licenses will be granted
and Nvidia hopes to start deliveries
soon. Can you attest whether that that's
true or not? The United States is
willing to let Nvidia sell H20s once
again in China?
Well, again, I and Marie, I think that'd
be a judgment that the Chinese
indigenous uh manufacturers namely uh
Huawei and some others already have an
equivalent chip. So, you know, if
there's an equivalent chip, then the
Nvidia H20 could be sold cuz I I can
tell you uh the one thing that we do not
want is a digital uh belt and road uh
springing up around the world because
other countries or China are
substituting for our American chip
manufacturers. This is the same chip
though that the Trump administration
blocked with export controls in April.
So why the change in policy now?
>> Uh Emory, you you might say that that
was a negotiating uh chip that we used
in Geneva and in London.
>> So this was part of the trade talks when
it comes to Washington and Beijing.
>> Yes.
>> Was it a quidd proquo then? as you said
it wasn't, but was it potentially to
make sure that you can get the licenses
when it comes to rare earths?
>> Uh, yeah, I think it it was all part of
a mosaic. Uh, they had things we wanted,
we have things they wanted, and you
know, we're in a very good place. I
expect to meet my ch Chinese
counterpart, the vice premere, in the
next few weeks.
>> So, when and where will that meeting
take place?
>> We're we're still working on that. The
Chinese leadership has a big conclave at
the beginning of August. So, we're
trying to work out whether that could be
in a third country before or after that
conclave.
>> Will the administration release the
framework of the Geneva and London
talks?
Well, we we have released some of it and
you know I'll I'll tell you that now
having settled on tariffs on the export
controls we can move on to the next
stage of talks and I think it's very
important both for the global economy
for the US economy and for the Chinese
economy for uh us to move on and talk
about China uh opening its markets and
the increase domestic and consumer
production there.
>> Are you hoping to get to that next phase
before August 12th when that's currently
the day taunt between these two
economies?
>> Yeah, I look I I think we're in a very
good place and I I tell market
participants not to worry about August
12th.
>> Should they worry about what's happening
with Europe with respect to the 30%
tariff rate? They don't seem to be
worrying, but I'm just curious whether
that's the final rate or whether the
letter was part of a negotiation that
Europe uh received from President Trump.
>> Uh well, Lisa, you know what I what I
would say is uh President Trump's able
to create a lot of leverage here, a lot
of leverage because he he's indifferent.
He's indifferent whether we take in the
30% rate or whether the Europeans come
to us with a much better deal. you as
I've been saying for a while that if
countries or trading blocks don't come
with their best deals then the rates
could boomerang back. So uh you know
President Trump's leading this and what
I what I will tell you is that a lot of
the deals and this this is where he his
leadership's been invaluable. A lot of
the deals that I thought were excellent
deals keep getting improved upon every
time he takes up the maximum pressure
strategy. There is a theory in markets
and you don't even have to calm them.
They're pretty calm. They're watching
all of these rates and they're not
freaking out in parlance uh on Wall
Street. They're taking this in stride.
We're close to all-time highs, if not at
all-time highs. Do you see this is
giving a green light to Trump to
President Trump to keep going to take
hardline approaches and to keep trying
to get better and better deals?
Look, I I I think this this nar
narrative of this obsessive focus on the
market isn't right. President Trump
views this as a generational opportunity
to reset trade in a fair and sound
manner for the American people. So the
the idea that some market ups or downs
are are going to be the deciding factor
here. what we uh are concerned about and
President Trump is laser focused on is
getting the best deals because uh you we
were not having fair trade and now we're
we're seeing with these countries coming
to the table the quality of the deals
gets better and better. So we're not
going to rush just because of some
market deadline. Now I think what the
market's saying is market's willing to
look forward 3 6 12 months and this is
going to be good for the US. It's going
to be good for the global economy.
>> If you do get some sort of signal from
the market though that this isn't going
to be good for the US economy. Is there
a trigger point? Is there sort of a
sense at which it it acts as a gut check
and sort of pulls back some of the
negotiating tactics?
>> Look, I I I think that the market
understands what we're doing. Sometimes
individual market people don't.
Sometimes the television personalities
don't. But you know, good good thing
about President Trump is he always tells
you what he wants and what he wants is
fair trade here.
>> I won't take that as a slight on me and
my colleagues around the table, Mr.
Treasury Secretary, but you did tell me
on April 2nd on Liberation Day that this
was the ceiling when it comes to those
rates. But since then, we have actually
had some tariff rates. the president
announced in letters higher than those
rates he announced on that big chart on
April 2nd. So is there no longer a
ceiling when it comes to tariff rates
when you are dealing with trading
partners?
>> Uh I I think that uh I I said if they if
they come and they negotiate in good
faith then those are ceilings and uh
some some of the talks got off to a very
slow start. So, who's negotiating in
good faith at this moment and who's not?
>> Again, I congratulated the UK the other
day, as I told many of our trading
partners and and Marie, I may have said
on that day or a few days after April
2nd, I'd advised countries to move
quickly because with President Trump,
the first deals are usually the best
deals and and the UK came in early. They
got a great deal and everybody else is
kind of dragging right now.
>> Well, when it comes to uh Japan, you're
headed there at the end of this week. Do
you expect to come back with a deal?
>> Uh I'm going to Japan to represent uh
the United States government and the
American people at the international
expo which we used to know as the
World's Fair. So this coming Saturday is
going to be America's day and I'll be
taking a delegation includes the labor
secretary, deputy secretary of state
will be representing the US. So th this
is a celebration of the US more than
trade talks.
>> Mr. Secretary, before you go, just a
final question. I'm embarrassed to say
that my knowledge of college basketball
is nothing like yours, but I can tell
you back in the ' 90s in English
football, there used to be a concept of
player managers. There used to be
certain managers of football teams that
also put themselves on the field and
they played too. Effectively, they had
two jobs. And I'm wondering from your
perspective whether that's something
you'd be interested in. We've seen that
throughout the administration. Is that
something you think that you could
pursue? Both the Treasury Secretary and
the Fed chair.
>> Uh look, I I I think I have the best job
in town. Uh I will do what President
Trump wants. We got a lot of great Fed
candidates and um you know I I'm
confident it's going to be a robust
process. Jonathan,
>> has he asked you?
>> What's that?
>> Has he asked you? Are you part of the
process?
>> Uh I I am part of the decision-making
process, but again, it's the final
decision is going to be President
Trump's.
>> Mr. Secretary, appreciate your time.
Thank you. The Treasury Secretary there,
Scott Besson, on a range of issues,
including trade and the future of this
Federal Reserve.
>> Yeah. talking about how if uh Fed Chair
Powell remains on the board that it
could be somewhat confusing after his ch
his regime as Fed chair is up. I think
that that's really notable. He also was
talking about uh some of the
negotiations and how the market is
perceiving them and how it doesn't
really matter but sort of you know it
seems to be reflecting well on the whole
process.
>> Also Jonathan's last question are you
part of the process? It wasn't that who
was part of the process as a candidate
who's part of the decisionmaking
process. Although he did say the final
decision will come down to the
president.
>> Important clarification, you can see the
frustration with the Fed chair J Pal on
a range of issues. They'd like a decent
understanding, I think, about his future
once his term has expired. Will he be
stepping down and vacating his seat as
the Fed governor? And I think the
Treasury Secretary was pretty clear
about what the administration would
expect to see in the next 12 months.
>> Absolutely. They are also hoping to see
when it comes to inflation coming down
an opportunity for this Fed to cut cut
rates. Of course, the Fed will say,
"Show me the tariff rates, then maybe we
can cut rates." And then also
interesting, I really think this is the
clearest signal we've yet to get from
someone in the administration or the
Fed. That JPEL is not staying on after
he is Fed Chair. he could stay on as a
governor till 2028, but him but the
Treasury Secretary saying it's confusing
if an ex-chair stays on the Fed board
when a lot of people including Democrats
are throwing criticism at this
administration for this idea of a shadow
Fed chair. I think that was a clear
signal that Powell is going to go when
his chairmanship is done.
>> We'll continue the conversation
throughout this morning. Let's take the
opportunity to get you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Big bank earnings are underway
with JP Morgan and Wells Fargo both
reporting in the last hour. JP Morgan
shares are now lower by 4/10en of a
percent after the bank saw a 7% jump in
investment banking fees and stock
traders posted their best second quarter
ever. Meanwhile, Wells Fargo shares are
lower nearly 2% after it cut its fullear
guidance for net interest income. Next
up is City, which reports in the next
hour. Meanwhile, the European Union is
drawing up retaliatory tariffs for US
goods in case the two sides don't reach
a trade deal. The list of American
products is worth $84 billion and
includes Boeing aircraft, cars, and
bourbon. President Trump said yesterday
he is still open to negotiating after
announcing a 30% levy on EU imports that
will kick in on August 1st. And staying
on trade, the port of LA saw its busiest
June ever after a slump in May with the
whipssawing trade war pushing shippers
to beat shifting deadlines. But trade
forecasters expect a severe drop for the
rest of the summer and through the
holidays which start in November, which
is typically peak season at the ports.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. Up next on the
program, inflation is dead.
>> The economy is roaring. Business
confidence is soaring. Things are up.
Prices are down and inflation is dead.
It's dead. Without us, you have no
world. And we put our country on uh
solid footing
>> in just a moment. Sarah Hun Alpine Saxon
Woods.
[Music]
Equities are positive by 0.4% on the
S&P, up as well on the NASDAQ. Under
surveillance this morning, inflation is
dead. The economy is roaring, business
confidence is soaring, incomes are up,
prices are down, and inflation is dead.
It's dead. We're doing great. We have no
inflation. Think of it. Uh, our stock
market hit record highs. Everything's
hitting a record high. We're really
running good with no inflation. Without
us, you have no world. And we put our
country on uh solid footing.
>> Inflation data due at 8:30 Eastern time.
About an hour away. Joining us now is
Sarah Hunt of Alpine. Sang some words.
Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is inflation dead?
>> I think it's quiet at the moment, but I
wouldn't I wouldn't completely rule it
out. I think that there's some
possibilities that it could pick its
head up, but I I think that it's hard
for people to anticipate data when we
spend a whole lot of time anticipating a
bunch of stuff that didn't happen. So, I
think there's a little bit of fatigue
there. So, it's hard to say right now.
>> It's difficult to forecast. There's
still some debate over the data we've
already had. What's underpinning these
softer than expected reads and why won't
it last? So if we think about whether or
not companies did a pull a huge pull of
inventory forward and or people started
changing their behavior because they
knew what was coming, you could argue
why that's soft now and why it should
rise if the rates are going higher. But
you still see these moving of the
goalposts in terms of timing which
allows companies to bring inventories
back in again and refresh that. So I
could see a lot of bumpiness in the data
and I also think that companies have had
a lot of time to prepare for this and if
I'm sitting there I want my margins to
stay where they are. So, I'm going to
try to do whatever substituting I can.
So, I also think that there's probably a
lack of understanding how much of that
substitution has gone on. And I think
that that is why it could be bumpier and
less dramatically higher than people are
expecting because they're expecting a
really fast move. I just wonder, can we
expect immaculate disinflation, ongoing
immaculate disinflation where there is
no pain in the overall economy at the
same time that inflation is dead? Does
that seem consistent with you or is
there kind of a tension right now
between employment data that's pretty
okay albeit with very slow activity and
inflation that seems to be maybe if not
dead in hospice.
It is one of those periods of time where
finding figuring out what that data
means is going to be tricky. It remains
tricky. Earnings are going to matter for
the stock market. inflation is going to
matter to some degree, but only if it's
really surprising or gets much higher
than people are looking for. And then
and then people start to investors
really start to worry. The question is
what do those trends look like? I mean,
to Treasury Secretary Besson's point,
it's not just about one number. It's
about where the trend is going. If it
looks like the trend is reversing,
investors are going to like that a whole
lot less.
>> Do you just not pay attention to the
data at all and buy AI, buy Nvidia, and
just, you know, call it a day?
>> It would have been the good trade for
this year, right? I mean that's that
that's sort of what happened is that you
had all this concern about II going into
the beginning of the year. Then you had
the trade situation. Everybody started
looking at every single earnings call
from Microsoft or every hyperscaler to
parse exactly what their spending was
going to be. There was this little bit
of freakout and then everybody got over
it really quickly. So that would have
been that reversal and that goes back to
the idea that the companies that have
growth and the companies that generate a
ton of cash and have good margins are
the places that they end up performing
better than the rest of the market
anyway. It would have been good to get
in on Nvidia just last night given the
fact that they have a blog post out
saying that those H20 chips that this
administration blocked are now going to
be able to go to China. How do you deal
with this? Basically flip-flop almost
within weeks or months of this
administration when you're trying to
direct what to do in a portfolio.
>> Well, I mean flip-flop is an interesting
term. I think it's more about I mean
again to Treasury Besson's point it's
changing those dynamics may have been
part of that discussion all along. So
you have to assume that some of the
things that are coming out as X or Y
maybe X or Y under certain circumstances
but if I change my mind they're going to
be different. So that's got to be and I
don't think that that's entirely
different from things that the way the
world works anyway. But I think that
certainly in the near term this
administration has been much different
about market changes than other
administrations. It's not just Nvidia.
It's AMD just crossing resuming ship
ship shipments to China once their
license clears. That stock is up in a
pre-market as well.
>> Look, China's a big business for all of
these chip providers. And the key
question is, can they understand the
rules of the game enough to create chips
that are compliant with some of the
constraints that have been put on them
from the US government?
>> Sarah, it's good to see you. Sarah Hunt
of Alpine Saxon Woods. AMD is up by 5%,
Nvidia by 4.4. It's been a big morning
already. Decent numbers from JP Morgan,
a beat and a raise. We heard from the
Treasury Secretary just moments ago on
this program endorsing central bank
independence. The formal process to
replace Chairman Pal is already
underway. It started more on that in
just a moment. Plus this Elias Galoo of
Bank of America on an excessively
bullish global fund manager survey. Plus
Danny Burgerer with your morning movers
with another look at the nation's
biggest banks from New York. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
This from the Bank of America Fund
Manager survey so far this morning.
Sentiment getting toy. They say investor
sentiment is the most bullish since
February 2025. the biggest surge in
profit optimism going back to July 2020
and a record surge in risk appetite over
the past three months. Sentiments
getting toppy.
>> Yeah. Although interesting when they say
that this typically has been the
indicator they've sold and it would have
been a good thing to sell. Right now
they're not saying to sell because
ultimately how do you fade something
that seems to be underpinned by a whole
host of different themes that's just
difficult to really just outright pull
against? We'll talk to Bank of America
directly about that survey in just a few
minutes time. Futures up on the S&P, up
by 0.4% on the S&P 500, up by 0.6 on the
NASDAQ. Some big stories out there for
the banks and for big tech as well. With
two hours until the opening hour with
your morning movers is Danny Burger. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey John. Yeah, a lot to work through
this morning. The first of which about
more than an hour ago, we got earnings
from the big bank, the big banks.
Interesting to see JP Morgan give up its
gains. At first when it announced we
were off to the races, a beat in a
raise. Investment banking did better
than expected. Traders a record first
half. You see some ebbing of that
sentiment is now down 410 of 1%. Wells
Fargo really taking a hit though. It
missed on its net interest income even
though it did see a beat on EPS. We also
had some of the smaller banks reporting.
uh Bank of New York Melon for example,
they reported those shares are still up
but they are off of the highs of the
morning only up half a percent really
seeing sentiment again across these
banking names start to eb for them it
was also a beat in a raise really
reinvesting uh a lot of their maturing
securities at higher yields helping them
to up their revenue finally moments ago
this breaking John you had mentioned it
before the commercial break AMD saying
that it was preparing now to export its
MI308 chips to China this is a chip that
had been blocked But it says that the US
Commerce Department is now re-reviewing
those licensed. When it initially got
blocked, it said it was an $800 million
hit it would take to its earnings. So
with the resumption of that, shares are
up 5.6%. John,
>> this is a big change in Washington. A
big change we're following this morning.
We'll keep tracking. Danny, thank you.
On our radar this morning, Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson telling us not to
put too much emphasis on this morning's
CPI data, saying it's more important to
look at the trend. Besson adding the
process to find a replacement for Fed
chair J.
has already started.
>> What's interesting what's going on with
the Fed and he's talking about this
process. The process already started.
He's saying he is part of the process in
in the sense that he is giving that
guidance to the president about a
decision almost sort of put some
distance between himself and potentially
going over and running the Fed. Then he
said this traditionally the Fed chair
also steps down as a governor and
there's been a lot of talk of shadow Fed
chair causing confusion in advance of
his or her nomination. And I can tell
you I think it'd be very confusing for
the market if a former Fed chair to stay
on. This is the big question for this
administration after Powell's
chairmanship is on. Will he stay on as
governor in 2028? I think there's a
clear signal that it's not likely.
There's a larger issue here, which is
how does this administration want to
reshape the way that the Fed really does
approach monetary policy? Is there some
sort of larger overhaul that Kevin Worsh
was really alluding to when he was
talking about regime change and how they
calculate certain uh aspects of the
economy and that I think increasingly is
going to be the question as we parse
through who the replacements to some of
those empty seats will ultimately be.
>> We witness saw the pressure on chairman
pal over the weekend and we woke up
Monday morning and hardly saw any
movement in the price action whatsoever.
I think the fact that we have Scott
Besson in the Treasury seat right now
brings this market a lot of comfort to
come out and talk about central bank
independence the way he did draw a line
under it and hopefully move on I think
is some of the reason why you haven't
seen markets move in quite the way they
would if Secretary Besson was saying the
kind of things that Kevin Hasset was
over the weekend. people view him as
sort of the arbiter of calm and
President Trump obviously looks at him
to that given the fact that he says I
come out in royal markets and he comes
out and he calms them at the same time
Scott Besson seems to be coming out and
saying the market is taking everything
in stride because they see the long game
and overall the long game is not to
disrupt the independence of the Fed and
it's not necessarily to create a trade
war just for the sake of it but it's
ultimately to get income and to create a
more fair landscape you know whether
that's actually what the market decides
after we see the rates etc. We shall
see. But I think it gives you a sense of
what the framework is that he sees.
>> He understands the bond market. If you
want lower rates, don't fire the central
bank governor. If you want higher rates,
fire the central bank governor or the
Fed chair in this case.
>> I'm guessing he wouldn't come out and
say drop rates to 1%. And he thinks that
that's appropriate for the Fed funds
rate because probably if Scott Besset
were to say that, you would see a real
reaction in the long end.
>> We'll have more on that conversation in
just a moment. I want to turn to the
bank results we've had so far. Kicking
off on Wall Street early this morning,
JP Morgan reporting equity and fake
trading revenue that beat estimates. On
the flip side, Wells Fargo missing net
interest income estimates and cutting
its fullear guidance. Two very different
stories this morning.
>> Yeah. Although one consistency and that
is that their loan laws provisions came
in lighter than expected, both of them.
So, if you're worried about credit
quality, well, it looks like that's not
as much of a concern. You know, you see
both of the shares down and they're down
for different reasons. JP Morgan shares
have been up some 40% this year. I mean,
this has been the highf flyier and so
some people are saying the bar is just
too high at this point for them to
cross. Well, Fargo is more interesting,
especially given what we heard uh
earlier this morning. How much do they
have more optimism ahead of them because
of the what was it the asset cap jail
that they had been in that had been
lifted? Is that something that they can
see? I mean, how does the market judge
that if they're not giving any good
guidance to that extent?
>> City groups up next. We'll hear from
another one in about 25 minutes time. I
said two big sector stories. one in the
banks. Lisa going over the financials,
we need to talk about tech. Chip makers
rising in the pre-market. Nvidia
planning to resume selling H20 AI chip
in China. AMD just moments ago also
preparing to resume shipments of its
MI308 chip once its export license is
cleared. It's a U-turn from the
administration.
>> It is a U-turn. This chip was developed
under the Biden administration. So, it
could be export compliant to send to
China. Trump administration comes in and
they say you cannot sell the H20 to
China. And guess what? We have had Kevin
Hasset. We've had the Treasury Secretary
in the past say this is not quit pro
crow. We're not going to make sure that
we do anything that goes against our
national security. But what did he say
to us this morning? Nvidia chip decision
is part of a quote mosaic of the China
talks. Basically saying this was part of
an agreement. And he used the term a
chip we were going to use when it comes
to the deal making the day tant they had
with Beijing.
>> Yeah. He he also said something else
that I thought was really uh provocative
and interesting which is he doesn't want
or they don't want China creating a
digital belt and road and this idea the
nod to you want to win the global war
for AI infrastructure and you can't do
that if you really separate chips from
the US going into basic Chinese uh goods
not necessarily military but basic
Chinese goods
>> two big movers in the pre-market lifting
this equity market higher by 0.4%.
Let's talk about this stock market and
turn to investor sentiment. The Bank of
America fund manager survey out just
moments ago. The title sticky toppy
pudding. Joining us now Galoo of Bank of
America. Elas welcome to the program
sir. Just across the board optimism.
Optimism. Optimism. You and the team
have called it toppy. Is this a sell
signal?
>> Look I mean yes. the one and one of our
famous trading rules uh that we
highlighted in the uh in the fund
manager survey did trigger a sell
signal. I'm talking about the uh FMS
cash rule uh which really look at how
investor are invested in the market and
this month the cash rule fell below 4%
which did trigger uh a sell a sell
signal and there have been roughly 17 uh
sell signals since 2011 with uh an
average return for the S&P 500 of minus
2% over the following four weeks. But
really I think John what stands out from
this month's fund manager survey is
hedging rather than just saying that uh
where the market is getting toppy.
Investor um are very much more inclined
to hedge their positions what did really
well uh in their portfolio in 2025 and
uh rotate towards assets that uh have
underperformed in the first semester
rather than just sell outright their
position and retreat for for the the
rest of the year. And in fact, if you
look at um market price uh price price
action uh since the beginning of the
second semester, it's corrating the
bottom line from the fund manager
survey. Assets that had underperformed
in the first semester like cryptos, like
homebuilder stocks, biotechs and even
renewables are now doing quite well in
the second semester. So we think hedging
is really the word to to remember this
month. Does that mean hedging some of
the big tech exposure given the increase
the rapid increase to allocation in that
space?
>> Yeah, I think it's really important to
highlight the rapid increase in tech
allocation. I mean over the past three
months since really the low of April
post liberation day FMS exposure to
global tech equities has reven has risen
by the most since March 2009. You see
here the extent of the recovery in
sentiment and positioning. There is yes
the recovery in positioning to tech but
there's also the the the the recovery in
terms of profit expectations. We saw
over the past three months the biggest
um rise in optimism when it comes to EPS
growth expectation since July 2020 when
the world was still battling with with
COVID. And you highlight here the the
big conviction from FMS investors. They
are very bullish on AI. They are very
bullish on tech stocks and they think
that it is going to be tech and large
cap uh AI stocks that are going to drive
um the surprises ac during this uh
earning season.
>> When you take a step back, it seems as
though an increasing number of people
are saying they don't like the
valuations. It makes them nervous. The
complacency, it makes them nervous, but
they're reluctant to sell. Hedging seems
to be the more credible way to do this.
And it really is the truth even when it
comes to US assets. Hedge the dollar.
I'm just wondering why that's sort of
the the mantra this time around. Why
people are so reluctant to sell even
when they say these valuations are
making them them a little bit nauseated.
>> Well, Lisa, you know, for those who sold
in April, you know, just after the
announcement from Liberation Day, they
certainly sold the S&P on its way to
5,000 and they bought it back when the
S&P had risen to uh to 6,000. So you
know there is this now um anchor uh
memory in in investors memory that when
they sell they will probably buy the S&P
at 5 10 points uh higher. So investors
are very reluctant to uh to sell today
but also I think it's important to focus
on the fund manager survey positioning
across assets and it's not on US stocks
where you see the big longs. In fact the
exposure to US equities is is net
underweight. It's on international
equities on international bank stocks
and in particular on European equities
and European assets where the big length
are. And I think the biggest pain trade
of the summer would be yes a stronger US
dollar coupled with lower international
equities, lower bank stocks and and a
lower euro currency.
>> Last week we had JP Morgan's JB Diamond
come out and say there's complacency in
the markets. Do you think there is too
much complacency in the markets when you
look at this fund manager survey?
>> I mean look, investors are still quite
worried about a global trade war. They
still view a full-blown trade war
causing a global recession as the
biggest tail risk, but clearly they are
less worried about this development.
Back in April, it there was a strong
unonymity when it when it came to the
potential downside risk from global
trade war. 80% had identified it as the
biggest uh tail risk. This time it's
only 38%. So you see that investors have
turned around on the impact and the
negative impact of a trade war. They now
view the average uh weighted tariff rate
that the US will impose on the rest of
the world. They estimate it at 14%. It
was 12% last month. So you see that yes
clearly the risk here is that we see a
further escalation on the the the trade
front because we think that based on
sentiment and positioning risk assets
and in particular the S&P 500 are more
likely to s to uh to react to bad news
than good news.
>> It's always provocative. It is again
this morning. Alias, thank you sir. Alas
Galoo there of Bank of America on their
global fund manager survey. Have you had
sticky toffee pudding before?
>> I have not.
>> Does that translate?
>> Not really. Not at all. Sponge pudding,
toffee sauce all over it.
>> Is it just
>> like a dessert?
>> And I understood that. I mean, I
understood that it was, but I just I
wasn't understood understanding whether
it was the stickiness. Never had it.
>> The sweetness.
>> Well, Michael Han is English and
obviously he's in London coming up with
titles for the research. And when I read
it out, I wondered whether actually that
translated Wall Street audience.
>> Do us all a service. Please translate
the implication of that. It's like a
soft pudding covered in toffee, but
they're calling it sticky toffee
pudding, which is the market right now.
>> Thank you. That's
>> like replacing toffee with toffee.
>> One more time. No, I'm kidding.
>> That's very good.
>> We're on the same page now. Anyway, what
jumped off the page for me is what he
talked about very close to the end. Most
crowded trade right now, short US
dollar, biggest contrarian trade and
maybe even the pain trade of the summer,
short euro, long dollar.
>> And an increasing number of people are
sussing that out. And that's one reason
why I keep asking how much this market
really has priced in the prospect of
these tariffs on Europe going into
effect at 30% and potentially having a
much bigger hit to the European economy
than a lot of people are currently
pricing in.
>> Euro dollar 11671.
We'll move on. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
Arnand. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. President Trump is threatening
to impose new tariffs on Russia over its
war in Ukraine. In an Oval Office
meeting with NATO Secretary General Mark
Rudda, Trump said if there isn't a deal
to end the fighting in 50 days, he'll
impose tariffs of 100%. He also said the
US was sending Ukraine top-of-the-line
weapons made in the US, but according to
him, paid for by NATO member states.
Meanwhile, Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg says
the company is building a series of
massive data centers to supercharge its
AI cap capabilities. The first one,
named Prometheus, is expected to go live
next year. Zuckerberg says the company
is going to invest hundreds of billions
of dollars into data center capacity to
achieve machine super intelligence. And
in sports, Cal Rally is the home run
derby champion amid an already historic
season for the Seattle Catcher. Raleigh,
who leads the league with 38 home runs,
outlasted Tampa Bay's junior Camo in the
derby's final round. He's the first
catcher in baseball history to win the
event. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, inflation data just around the
corner. I think one thing that Wall
Street, a lot of economists, market in
general got wrong early on was that
tariffs were going to uh cause a
substantial price level rise, which just
hasn't happened. In just a moment, we'll
catch up with Matt Hornback of Morgan
Stanley.
[Music]
Stocks are positive by a third of 1% on
the S&P 500, up by 0.5 on the NASDAQ.
The next stop for earnings, City City
Group reporting numbers in about 12
minutes time. Under surveillance this
morning, inflation data just around the
corner. There's some persistence there.
I wouldn't put too much emphasis on one
number. I I think it's the trend. And I
think one thing that Wall Street, a lot
of economists, market in general got
wrong early on was that tariffs were
going to uh cause a substantial price
level rise, which just hasn't happened.
>> Investors awaiting inflation data for a
read on how President Trump's global
trade war is impacting the economy. That
data is due at 8:30 Eastern time. Matt
Hornbeck of Morgan Stanley joins us now
for more. Matt, welcome to the program,
sir. A question we've been asking all
morning. We've had four softer than
expected inflation reads in a row. Can
we make it day five? Can we make it
month five?
>> Well, John, we we think uh probably not.
Uh when we're looking at the CPI fixings
market was a a very unique marketplace
within fixed income that focuses on
exactly the index uh level for CPI. uh
we think it's signaling a a chance of a
small upside surprise, but um I think
the the issue that our economists have
been talking about for some time is that
they haven't really expected to see the
tariff show up in the data until now.
So, it's not as if uh the data that
we've gotten so far this year has really
surprised our economists. Uh but we
think that the tariff effects will show
up starting in this report. So, I would
say if we don't see it in this report to
any degree, uh, then you'd have to start
thinking somewhat differently, but um,
we'll we'll see in just a little bit.
>> Can we take that a step further, Matt?
You said if we don't see it in this
report, you have to start thinking
differently. Do you think that this is a
decisive moment to understand whether
the tariffs are inflationary or not?
>> Well, any one report um needs to be uh
taken in in its proper context. There
are other things going on in the US
economy. It could very well be the case
uh that we do start to see tariff
related effects in goods prices but
what's happening in other parts of the
economy in the service sector in
particular uh just overwhelm uh what's
happening on the good side. So we need
to look at every aspect of the report uh
to make any broader judgments. Uh it's
just one report. Uh we've got uh a whole
second half of the year to get through.
Uh so uh we'll we'll of course be paying
attention to the upcoming data as it
rolls in.
>> It's interesting to me that when we got
the last CPI report on June 11th, yields
have barely moved. They're basically in
the same place. You've seen a little bit
of a move on the front end with yields
coming in. Globally though, it's another
picture. You're seeing long-end yields
across the world, particularly led by
Japan, surging higher. Does that give
you comfort about investing in the US or
do you feel like they're just completely
different dynamics at play?
I do think Lisa that there are different
dynamics at play. Oftentimes markets
march to the beat of their own drummers.
Uh sometimes they march uh to the beat
of one. But I think in this case we're
we're definitely seeing idiosyncratic
developments in different bond markets.
Uh I can tell you a detailed story about
what's going on in Japan, a separate
detailed story about what's happening in
the long end of the guilt market in the
UK. Uh and then of course what's
happening in in the United States. So,
every market is is different. I think in
this moment, it just so happens that the
stars are aligning uh to put upward
pressure on longer term interest rates.
>> Matt, you used to trade JGPs about 20
years ago. Can you just share with us
your experience 20 25 years ago and just
how much this market has changed over
the past few decades?
>> Yeah, I I will tell you I did not expect
my experience 25 years ago to uh to to
be brought up at this point, but here we
are. I I do think that the long end of
the JGB market uh is is just different
in the sense that uh I mean the supply
picture is largely the same. There's
always been a tremendous amount of
supply in the Japanese government bond
market, but what's different is the
demand side of the equation. Uh the life
insurance uh companies in Japan uh are
selling fewer life insurance products to
the people of Japan. uh in part because
the people of Japan have other
investment options uh in particular
related to the Nissa scheme uh which
essentially allows the people of Japan
to invest for their retirement in a
taxefficient way uh that didn't exist 25
years ago and so uh there are some
different demand dynamics happening in
Japan and of course because the market
is largely a domestic market uh you know
those types of structural shifts shifts
in demand can have quite an effect on
the price and that's exactly what we're
seeing today.
>> So Matt, as you know, Japanese investors
have a rather large presence in certain
European debt markets, in the US
Treasury market as well. We've debated
on this program now for a number of
months as to whether we would see some
form of great repatriation as yields
start to back up in Japan, whether we
start to see a read through to other
markets as the money starts to come
home. You anticipating that at all,
Matt?
Well, I I do think that um over the
course of time there will be these kind
of glacial shifts in investment
direction. Uh I don't think that we're
seeing it with any particular impulse in
this moment. Um but ultimately if yields
in the long end of the JGB curve
continue to rise, uh those assets will
become much more attractive to investors
that sit outside of Japan. Uh and so of
course the the price determines a lot in
this business that we're in. Uh if the
price cheapens up, you're going to see
investment capital uh chase valuation
and so that could be something that uh
defines the second half of this year.
>> That experience was useful. Matt
Hornback of Morgan Stanley. Matt, thank
you sir as always. Appreciate it. That
market's changed a lot.
>> Yeah, it used to not be a market. it was
suddenly owned by the Japanese
authorities and now it's starting to
become a market again much to the
chagrin of those Japanese authorities
that now are looking at yields that are
much higher. The last question is really
important here. The repatriation of some
of those assets and what that does to
connect the global markets in a way
where they don't become as idiosyncratic
as maybe they're trading right now.
>> Do you remember waking up to those
headlines every now and again that would
just say the Japanese 10 year hasn't
traded today?
>> Do you remember that? I do.
>> That's the last, you know, the last
decade over in Japan in that market. If
you want to talk about inflation being
dead, the Japanese bond yield was dead.
I mean, really, it was flatlining for a
long, long time because it was entirely
owned by uh the government, but all of a
sudden it's not and it's gotten a lot
more interesting. And Matt Hornbach,
thank you for that experience.
>> That's the focus of the global debt
markets so far this morning. So far this
morning, we've got through a lot.
Numbers from JP Morgan, pretty decent.
Numbers from Wells Fargo, less decent.
In about five minutes time, we'll hear
from Croup. About 30 minutes after that,
we're going to get inflation numbers.
And I think it's important to listen to
what we heard from the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson a little bit
earlier on this morning about the
pressure they're putting on the Fed
chair. The pressure now on the Fed chair
not to leave immediately, but to vacate
the seat once his term expires to allow
them to nominate a new governor.
>> Absolutely. Because he thinks it will
cause confusion if a Fed chair stays on
as a governor. Especially there's a lot
of controversy around this idea of a
shadow Fed chair.
>> Much more still to come on our
conversation with the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson. Plus, Greg Battle of BMP,
Jerro Cassidy of RBC, Neil Dutter of
Renmag, and David Kelly of JP Morgan.
[Music]
>> The tariffs could definitely create some
inflationary headwinds.
>> The effects of the tariffs are actually
going to take some time.
>> We will not start seeing the inflation
effects until a few more months down the
road.
>> It's still too early for us to really to
start to see a wave of inflation. The
risk to us is that we see a more
persistent impact of inflation.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now with equities doing
okay, led by the chip sector and some of
the biggest banks in this country.
Equity futures on the S&P up by a third
of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.6. 30
minutes away. CPI in America. inflation
data at 8:30 Eastern time and lots of
banks in between. Tomorrow you'll hear
from Bank of America, Goldman, and
Morgan Stanley. This morning, just
seconds ago, we're hearing from Cityroup
>> and they join the JP Morgan uh side of
things in terms of beats pretty much
across the board when you look at
whether it's investment banking, fixed
sales and trading, net interest income,
equity sales and trading across the
board beating at a time when a lot of
people are wondering about the
turnaround plan. City's going to be
interesting that way. And I am curious
about how much those shares are going to
respond to this because the bar hasn't
been quite as high as say those uh
shares of JP Morgan.
>> Shanali Bass joins us now for a sneak
peek of what we've seen in the last few
minutes. Shali, I gave the cheat guide
for JP Morgan earlier on this morning. I
said beat beat beat beat beat beat beat
beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat
beat beat beat and I think I'm seeing
the same thing on city.
>> So many beats and remember forgroup as
Lisa had alluded to it counts a lot more
doesn't it? You had come into this
quarter with Croup really trading at a
lot less than book value still came in
at the end of yesterday trading at 85%
of book value just about when will it
hit book value John that is Jane
Frasier's goal here now remember they
had revamped a lot of their businesses
they have new leadership so the fact
that they're beating on fixed income
trading on equities trading on
investment banking and net interest
income remember the other two banks that
reported this morning did not beat on
net interest income for this quarter is
very promising for Croup particularly
because that bar had been a little bit
lower coming in. They're also seeing
fullear adjusted revenue at about $84
billion. That is above prior estimates.
So beat in a raise for you once again
pretty rosy out there on Wall Street
today.
>> Shnie Bas with the latest. Shnie, thank
you. That's the latest on City. So far
this morning for the equity bulls,
you're getting everything you wanted and
more. A beat for some of the nation's
biggest banks. A beat and a raise from
JP Morgan. beat from city reversing some
of the chip curves at least that's
expected with regards to exporting it to
China at AMD at Nvidia if we have a
clean sweep it would need to include at
8:30 Eastern time a softer than expected
inflation print
>> immaculate disinfl disinflation ongoing
strength in corporate America ongoing
suggestion of strength among consumers
at the same time that you're not seeing
a readthrough of those promised tariffs
in some sort of increase in prices for
consumers you get the trifecta we get a
new high that's what a lot of people are
expecting And the Treasury Secretary was
talking about how one print doesn't
really matter. It's the trend. So really
leaning onto the fact that before today
we had four months of straight softer
CPI prints and they're leaning into that
when they start continuously this
jawbone of Jay Powell. Something else
that is good news for the markets. He
made it very clear the president is not
looking to fire the Fed chair.
>> I imagine though that Fed chair is going
to face a lot of pressure if we get
another soft read at 8:30 Eastern time.
Social media posts are going to begin
straight away. You can almost draft
them. If you get a softer CPI print,
Trump is going to come out yet again and
said, what did he say yesterday?
Inflation is quote dead. Doesn't exist.
Well, there's still some inflation. Of
course, the issue that this Fed has is
the fact that they haven't set the
tariff rates. And having this discussion
with the Treasury Secretary, he says,
"We're not going to rush deals based off
some market deadline." Well, it's not
really a market deadline. It's their
deadline. They just keep pushing the can
down the road.
>> The S&P this morning firmer by a third
of 1%. And we begin this hour with
stocks higher as investors await key
inflation data. Greg Battle of BMP
Parabar writing the following. Investors
looking to hedge over CPI should
consider the Russell 2000. While the
vault isn't obviously cheap, the index
has been sensitive to CPI surprises.
Greg, join us now for more. Greg, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's just get into what you do expect
to see at 8:30. Let's start there. What
are you and the team looking for? Yes,
our economics team are looking for a
print in line with consensus, which is a
tick up sequentially to.3 both for the
claw and the headline. I'm not sure
that's going to be enough to move the
market one way or the other.
>> Is this a decisive moment in terms of
either we see the uh influence from
tariffs or we don't? Kind of the
suggestion of this is the month that
should show up and if it doesn't then
you have to rethink things.
>> I think it's disproportionately
important. I mean, you know, one given
data point isn't the be all and end all
but people are looking for the emergence
of that trend to start with this data
point. So if we were to see a hot print,
I think it would uh give the market
pause for thought.
>> What would that pause forthought look
like? In other words, how complacent has
this market gotten to the idea that
there hasn't been as big of a real read
through in inflation from the tariffs.
>> One of the things that we've seen
recently in the past couple of weeks has
been a large rotation into some of the
most shorted names, unloved names, lower
quality names, and those are typically
names that benefit from a Fed cutting
cycle. So I think what we could see is a
reversion of that rotation if we were to
see a hot print. So, not necessarily a
wholesale sell-off, but just sort of
shifting around, which seems to be uh
the way people are thinking about things
right now.
>> I think if we got a hot inflation print
and that were the market, you could see
two things. One, you could see the
market reverse some of the gains and you
could see that rotation under the
surface reverse and in the index space
that would be things like small and mid
caps. Russell,
>> why would I want to leave what's working
so well right now, which is mega cap
tech and all the right things keep
happening, including this morning on
Nvidia and AMD? Yeah, I'm not sure that
you would. I mean, the one message we've
had for large cap tech, and you can
express this through NASDAQ, is starting
to look at delta replacement strategies.
This is the idea of owning the upside in
the optionality. So, you can benefit
from a trending higher, an overshoot if
you like, but mitigating some of that
risk at all times.
>> Can we sit on earnings just for a couple
of bits?
>> What are the big tailwinds now for
earnings? Because we were talking about
the fund manager survey from Bank of
America earlier on this morning.
optimism has snapped back around
earnings just like that so quickly even
with all the policy volatility down in
Washington DC. What are the big
tailwinds now?
>> Yeah, so I think when we think about
earnings, they are obviously
backward-looking and they're going to
cover second quarter. The macro data in
second quarter remain robust and then we
saw a couple of big incremental
headwinds. One is the dollar massive
dollar depreciation Q2 over Q1. 40% of
S&P revenues come from over from
overseas. That's just a big mechanical
translation effect. the fiscal measures
we've seen, one big beautiful bill.
That's something we don't think is
reflected in the sellside consensus yet.
So there are two kind of mechanical
tailwinds if you like that should drive
some upgrades post earnings.
>> At the same time, there's the huge
headwind which is the tariffs that we
don't really have a sense of exactly
what the rates are. Is this a market
that doesn't think the president is
actually going to go through the rates
as he's proposed even over the weekend
or is this a market that says even at
that pace it's fine and companies have
shown their ability as Tom Keem would
say to adapt and adjust? I think it's a
market that doesn't know. So what people
are trying to do is to trade the data
points as they see them. So we've become
a little bit more numb to the headline
risk and instead people are going to try
and trade the data. That's why CPI today
is super important and earning season.
>> The secretary was talking about how the
narrative of obsessive focus on the
market is not right. And then he says
I'll tell market participants not to
worry on August 12th. That's when the
day taunt that deadline is up between
Beijing and Washington. So, if they're
telling you not to worry about these
deadlines, do you just take everything
that's coming out of the White House
right now as pure negotiating tactics?
>> You can see that the market isn't really
worried about the deadlines because you
can look in the options market and see
where risk premier is priced. Risk
Premier is priced for things like today
with the CPI print. It's priced for the
FOMC. The deadlines coming out the White
House do not see kinks in the volatility
surface that suggest people are trying
to hedge those specific dates.
>> Is that because people believe it
doesn't matter or because it won't
happen? because there are two very
different interpretations of all of
this. Lisa talked about the adapt and
adjust that TK would always talk about
with companies. Certainly there is some
evidence of corporate resilience. Is it
that
>> it doesn't matter or is it it won't
happen?
>> I think it's the it's more that people
are uncertain as to whether it happen or
what extent it will happen and where
will you see that impact and I think
that at the moment people have tried to
trade the headlines. It hasn't really
worked. So people are taking to trade
the data instead. I've struggled with
the data. Never mind trading the
headlines. I'm struggling to trade the
data. When we get these numbers in 22
minutes time, if it's softer than
expected, I've got no idea what the
number will be. Some people will say
that's signal. Companies are handling it
well. Maybe they have to take it on
margin. They can't pass it along.
Whatever. Other people will say it's
noise. All this is is pre-tariff
inventory. We're still working through
it. Wait. Just wait. And you'll see it
eventually later on the summer. That was
the argument the month before. We're
going to hear that potentially again at
8:30 Eastern time. How much can you read
into the economic data that we're
getting?
>> I think sequentially as we move forward,
you start to read more into it. I don't
think anyone expected the
backward-looking data at this point to
show anything. But I think people do
expect there to be, you know, the early
side signs of impact in this print and
into the next print. So this print, the
next print, I think if they were very
soft, it would be hard to look through
that.
>> This market's been trained conditioned
by experience. When in doubt, just buy.
When in doubt, just look through
everything. It's just going to be noise.
Does that create a certain fragility?
The lack of a response function in
markets to headlines that could
potentially be transformative and
potentially uh facing a rude wakeup
call.
>> Yeah, I think it really increases the
risk that we overshoot. People become
numb to the headlines around tariffs and
then if you were to see an actual
economic impact, if that comes later
over the next couple of months and
people have managed to rebuild those
equity longs, then it can be more
impactful.
>> Greg Battle of BMP Paraba. Greg,
appreciate your time. Next stop for this
market 8:30 Eastern time. I have no
doubt whatever the number will be the
debate will continue.
>> Right now you have ranges in terms of
estimates on Wall Street from 0.1% to
0.4%. That's a pretty big delta. So
you're looking at people who have their
finger in the wind trying to figure it
out. And it seems like everyone has a
different answer.
>> Might not sound like a lot. Might not
sound like a lot.
>> It is.
>> But you can drive a truck through that.
That's a that's a big spread
>> especially because it's not just
headline. This is actually even in core
when you strip out energy and food. It's
the same range. People don't understand
the response function from corporations
that have set uh contracts with their
suppliers and are trying to figure out
what they're going to do with all this.
>> The difference between 0.1 and point 4
is a very different conversation at the
end of the month on the Feb. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Back
with us, here's Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with city results.
Traders there posted their best second
quarter in 5 years. Revenue from the
bank's fixed income trading business
soared 20% to 4.3 billion, beating the
third $3.9 billion predicted by analysts
in a Bloomberg survey, while city stock
traders hauled in $1.6 billion boosted
by volatility amid President Trump's
trade war. Meanwhile, the Port of LA saw
its busiest June ever after a slump in
May with the whipsawing trade war
pushing shippers to beat shifting
deadlines. But trade forecasters expect
a severe drop for the rest of the summer
and through the holidays starting in
November, which is typically peak season
at the ports. And Andrew Como's bid for
New York City mayor is not over. The
former governor announced he intends to
run in the general election in November.
Cuomo's announcement follows his
decisive loss to upstart Zoron Mandani
in the Democratic prim primary. Cuomo
will pledge to drop out if he isn't
Mumdani's highest polling opponent by
September. That's according to a person
familiar. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhira, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, the Morning Calls, plus Joe
Cassidy of RBC Capital Market with bank
earnings underway from New York City.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
be a judgment that uh the Chinese
indigenous uh manufacturers already have
an equivalent chip. So, you know, if
there's an equivalent chip, then the
Nvidia H20 could be sold. One thing that
we do not want is a digital uh belt and
road uh springing up around the world
because other countries or China are
substituting for our American chip
manufacturers.
>> It's a change in Washington DC. That was
the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson on
these chip manufacturers. Nvidia up in
the pre-market by 4.5%. and AMD up by
close to five.
>> This is the same administration that in
April said you cannot export this chip.
The concerns were about national
security. Now they were saying this was
a chip in the negotiations. It was part
of the quote mosaic of the trade talks
in Geneva and London with China. And
then when it comes to that August 12th
deadline, Treasury Secretaries, I tell
market participants not to worry. All I
can say is Jensen Wong has a front seat
and this is the view he's been putting
out there. a digital belt and road and
if you want to compete in terms of
international use of US technology, you
cannot have these bans etc. that's
gaining clout in the White House. That's
what that meant to me given the fact
that Secretary uh Treasury Secretary
Bessant really referred to that kind of
uh that kind of idea.
>> I think it's more than just having a
front seat. I think he's almost driving
the car. This is an individual that went
and met President Trump. Now you see
this reversal. He announces it himself
on his blog and in China to his Chinese
customers. This was the person that also
really was pushing this administration
to get rid of the diffusion rule,
putting the world into AI buckets on
where and how they could export some of
these chips. And the Trump
administration did that and he is
getting a mass amount of money flowing
in from the Middle East. And now he's
going to get back on China's market.
>> Some big moves in the pre-market. Those
two names driving gains this morning.
Equity futures on the S&P higher by 0.3%
on the NASDAQ up by 0.5. That's the
price action. Here are your morning
calls. First up, Morgan Stanley
downgrading Freeport McMoran to equal
weight, coming ahead of a 50% tariff on
US copper imports. Elsewhere, your
second call from JP Morgan downgrading
Solar Edge to neutral, pulling back
after the stock's outperformance since
May. That stock is down by 1.65%. And
finally, Jeff downgrading Door Dash to
hold, saying there is not enough to
justify continued outperformance. That
name is down about 1% in early trading.
Let's turn back to the big banks. JP
Morgan and City beating expectations.
Wells Fargo cutting guidance and missing
net interest income estimates. Joining
us now is Bloomberg's Chinali Basak.
Chanali, a few different stories there
already this morning.
>> Definitely. You have JP Morgan, as you
say, beating expectations as well as
raising guidance, which is a welcome
news for Wall Street. However, John, one
question I still have, and we have to
wait till the calls to hear exactly what
executives say about this. Credit
quality has held up remarkably well.
Loan growth has expanded in the credit
card businesses in particular. But if
you look at it in the current quarter,
even if JP Morgan raised their
expectations for the year, for JP Morgan
and Wells Fargo, net interest income
came in below expectations. Is there a
bit of caution? Even if you're having
good numbers flow through the banks, is
there caution when it comes to meeting
the consumer? JP Morgan CEO Jamie
Diamond and CFO Jeremy Barnum are now
talking to media talking about that
caution and how easy it is to get
complacent at this level. I want to
point out uh they also nodded to what
Ann Marie was talking about a little
earlier, certainty when it comes to the
big beautiful bill. It gives confidence
to corporate clients to move forward and
you do see them starting to capitalize
on those Wall Street businesses which
bodess very very well for Morgan Stanley
Goldman Sachs tomorrow. What I'll be
watching for today is are you going to
be in a situation where Morgan Stanley's
price to book ratio here actually jumps
past that of JP Morgan because they are
so much more weighted in those Wall
Street businesses. That could be a good
barometer for you in terms of how Wall
Street feels about these businesses.
Look for that in the next 24 hours.
Shali, thanks for the recap. Appreciate
it. Basic help happening to lead some of
the coverage of bank earnings this
quarter. We have had a stunning rally
over the past few months. A rally of
more than 38% off the lows of April for
the KBW bank index. To discuss, RBC's
Jared Cassidy joins us for more. Jared,
a rally of almost 40% on the bank index.
Do you see enough this morning for this
rally to continue?
>> John, I think it certainly supports
higher valuations. Now certainly we're
not expecting that kind of move over the
short term as we just experienced as you
pointed out you know understanding of
course the bank sold off very hard from
the February highs into that early April
time period but it's not only the
results that are driving these stocks
higher as you and I have chatted in the
past it's really about the deregulation
opportunities for the banks and that's a
big support for the bank valuations at
these prices. Gerard, how do we
understand what's been priced in? That's
been the big concern with the likes of
JP Morgan and that's the reason why
you're not seeing a response even after
beat beat beat beat beat beat beat beat
beat beat beat beat beat beatet beat
beat beat beat beat beat beat beatet as
John s summed up you know how much do we
can we understand the deregulatory
impulse as well as a pretty steady
economy and rates relatively high how
much have we really factored that
already in the price?
That's that is the $64,000 question,
Lisa, because it's very hard for
investors to really determine with a
high degree of calibration of how much
is priced in. Certainly, something is
priced in as we all know. Uh the
question is it all priced in and I think
what we'll have to wait and see is as we
enter into the fall and we see what
these new guidelines will be for the
Basel free endgame that will determine
how much really is priced in. We expect
the uh results or the proposal when it
comes out to be quite favorable for the
banks. So certainly a a portion of this
good news is clearly priced in. The
question as you point out is it all
priced in? We don't think so, but a good
portion of it is.
>> Right now, the call for JP Morgan is
ongoing and Jamie Diamond has come out.
A couple of headlines here. I'm not
listening to the call obviously. We're
here. Uh, but some of the headlines
include this independence of the Fed is
absolutely critical. Putting aside this
question about the independence of the
Federal Reserve, what would happen if
the Fed dramatically dropped interest
rates? What would happen to the outlook
for banks given that they've really
benefited in terms of where rates are
currently?
It's interesting because you certainly
don't want the Fed funds rate falling
back down to the levels of where it was
right after the pandemic of 0 to 25
basis points. And I'm not suggesting
even in a first rate cut we'd ever see
that. But if we can have a gradual
decline in the Fed funds rate of let's
call it 75 to 100 basis points over the
next 12 months, that is still very
favorable to the banks. It's really um
kind of offthecliffs that would be
disruptive. Meaning if we got a 100
basis point rate cut, which again
nobody's expecting, but that would
certainly be disruptive. But a gradual
decline of 75 to 100 basis points at the
front end of the curve and the long end
of the curve stays anchored around 4 and
a.5%. We would view that very favorably
for the banks.
>> Jordan, I'd love to get your take on the
tariff volatility. It's clearly been an
opportunity for these banks when it
comes to trading. But at the same time,
they do talk about this uncertainty that
still lingers overall in the economy
because of that uncertainty. Do you
think that the volatility that emanating
from Washington DC has been helpful to
these banks or more so that they would
rather clear-cut clarity as soon as
possible?
>> It's a it's a mixed blessing actually.
When you look at the money center and
the investment banks, the trading
revenues for these companies are much
greater in size than the investment
banking revenues. Trading revenues
benefit from increased volatility.
Investment banking revenues, not so
much. So from that standpoint, you would
certainly say from a pure investment
banking trading standpoint, they've
benefited. On the other hand, however,
when it comes to corporate lending and
borrowing, it the uncertainty is
weighed, I think, on the loan growth
prospects for the industry. So, that
would have to be on the negative side of
the ledger when it comes to all this
tariff talk and the uncertainty
associated with it.
>> Jared, final couple of questions. Next
time you're here in Manhattan, when you
walk down Park Avenue and look up, you
can't miss it. The tower is basically
completed now. And a lot of people
thought once the tower was completed,
maybe we'd hear something about Jaime
Diamond's future. And I wonder, Jared,
from your standpoint, how close we are
to seeing that headline drop across a
Bloomberg terminal that said, "Mr.
Diamond has decided to call it a day."
How close are we?
>> John, I think if I was asked that before
their investor day, I would have said it
maybe sooner than we all realize, but
Jamie Diamond made it very clear at his
investor day. He's, you know, having a
time of his life. He's having a lot of
fun and he's delivering great numbers
and he has no real plans of retiring
anytime soon. So, I think we're gonna
have to wait longer than when that tower
is completed for him to announce his
retirement.
>> Five more years.
>> No, no, not five. I I would put it less
than five. I would I would if you had to
be a betting person, probably he'll
retire in the next two to three years,
but that's just a guess on my part. I
have no insight insight on his
retirement plans. Jared Cassidy of RBC
Capital Markets. Jared, appreciate your
time, sir. As always, thanks for this
morning working through numbers from JP
Morgan, from Wells Fargo, from City to
the future of Jamie Diamond. Apparently,
it's not five more years, but it's
certainly not just one. I have a theory
which potentially if you have President
Trump in the White House and President
Trump clearly respects Jaime Diamond and
Ja Diamond can say certain things and he
clearly had an impact on President Trump
then if he stays in in at the helm of JP
Morgan for the remainder of President
Trump's helm then when President Trump
leaves then you know we can start
talking about politics again
>> best to the Fed and
>> diamond to the Treasury.
>> I don't know I'm just thinking out loud.
So
>> Democrats are idiots. There was a line
he used recently. there's an audition
for a seat that might be opening.
>> You could collect them. I just I the
collect the quotes. I mean, I'm just
throwing out there, you know, this would
make sense for him to be in that role
and then to, you know, look for a better
>> The tower's not open yet. The man
clearly wants to hold court at least for
a year minimum in his tower.
>> Do that. Take some photos.
>> Have you ever been to a ribbon cutting?
>> No, I haven't.
>> It's It's really I've always like, you
know, the sort of pomp and circumstance.
the size of the the scissors, the size
>> the idea of like smashing the champagne
against the boat. It's more my scene
than a ribbon cutting.
>> Is that so?
>> Isn't that what you're seeing? Sort of
smash champagne against boats.
>> Definitely. Ribbon cutings are
underwhelming.
>> Yeah, I'm not into that.
>> I don't I don't like the broken glass
and if you go down on the bottom, you
cut your feet. All right, let's move on.
>> Serious stories. Up next, we got USCPI.
You wouldn't know based on this
conversation. Neil Dart of Remac joins
us in just a moment. David Kelly of JP
Morgan Asset Management here to react.
We've had a string of softer than
expected inflation reads in the United
States of America. We've had four months
of it. Will this be month five? The data
drops in about 5 minutes time. Going
into it, your scores look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 firmer by
210 of 1%. Bond yields are higher at the
front end by three basis points going
into this 393.
[Music]
The opening bell is 60 minutes away.
We're seconds away from inflation data
which may dictate how we open later on
this morning. Equity futures positive by
a quarter of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ 100, up by 0.5.
Turn to the bond market. The scores in
fixed income look like this. 2-year, 10
year, 30-year yields at the front end of
the curve, higher by two basis points.
The 2-year 392 with your economic data
this morning. Let's cross over to Mike
McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> 1 point.
>> Good morning, John. We've got an upside
surprise here that kind of makes a
little hash of perhaps the Treasury
Secretary's claim that inflation hasn't
hit yet. CPI comes in up 3/10en of a
percent. Uh the downside surprise though
is in the core, up just 2/10en of a
percent. Both were up a tenth of a
percent last month. Year-over-year we go
to 2.7% which is higher than the
anticipated 2.6%. It's a 3/10% move up
from last month and core is at 2.9%.
That is what was expected. Last month it
was 2.8%. Let me just quickly mention
Empire Manufacturing goes up 22 points
to a positive 5.5. important because
that's July number. One of the first
July numbers we get and it is the first
time it's been positive since February.
Prices paid though went up. I'm going to
check whether we have uh an tariff
impact here while you check the markets.
John
>> Mike McKe. Thank you, Sarah. I'll come
back to you in just a moment. Your
headline on the first read, the fifth
consecutive month of softer than
expected core CPI in America. Five
consecutive months. All the talk of
higher prices just not coming through.
Not yet, you might say, but it's not
here this morning. Not at the headline
and not in core. Core CPI 0.2%. The
expectation in our survey, the estimate
0.3 the previous month, 0.1. In the
equity market, we like it. We're up by
0.5% on the S&P 500. And in the bond
market, fixed income likes it too. Check
out treasuries. Yields lower at a front
end and the long end. On a 10-year,
we're down by three basis points. Bremo
439. If people were expecting to see
some sort of runaway inflation on the
heels of tariffs, they didn't see it in
this report, particularly as you said
with core x food and energy coming in
softer than expected 0.2% versus the
expectation for 0.3%. You could see the
yields coming in on the heels of that.
Now the question is how much does this
really change people's outlook going
forward of whether we will see those
implications or uh whether this actually
does give you a sense of how people are
adapting and adjusting.
>> We'll come back to Mike McKe in just a
moment. I want to bring in Neil Data of
Renaissance Macro. Neil, welcome to the
program, sir. That's not four, it's
five. Why is that signal and not noise?
>> Well, I mean, I think look, we're
obviously tariff revenues are going up,
right? And the effective tariff rate is
rising. That was the case in June. And
despite that, inflation missed
expectations. So that means that I mean
tariffs increase costs. We all know that
uh who ends up bearing the cost is where
the uh debate is. And you know I think
at the margin this probably reflects
more of a margin squeeze than anything
else. It's not like prices for core
goods aren't going up. They are. Um but
you have you know I mean I was just
looking at the data. You see big
increases in appliances. you see big
increases in all sorts of household um
furnishing and supplies. Uh but it's
also important to remember that service
sector inflation uh service sector
prices represents the lion share of uh
of what people spend their money on and
prices in those areas continue to go
down. You know, ultimately it's going to
come down to nominal dollars spent,
right? So to the extent that people
shift more of their household budgets
towards goods because the prices of
those things are going up um they'll
have less left over to spend elsewhere
and that means that services are at risk
and that's why they'll ultimately see
the prices for those things coming down.
So that that to me seems to be what's
going on. Uh the nominal anchor isn't
changing tariffs are uh resulting in a
relative price shift that's that's
pushing up um the prices for consumer
goods. That is clear. If you look at the
data, that's obvious. Look at just look
at household furnishings uh in the
latest uh report. Um but services are
are providing an important offset.
>> Neil, is that a good enough reason for
two Fed governors on the FOMC later on
this month to stick their hand up and
say, "I think we should cut rates."
>> Uh I I I mean, I don't think they'll be
as noisy about it uh in in July only
because um you know, the last employment
report gave them some calm, right?
because the unemployment rate went down.
But you know ultimately you know for me
it's about you know what is nominal
income uh doing when you take like the
sum product of jobs, hours and earnings
and you look at it over the last several
months it doesn't look particularly
encouraging. uh at the same time you've
seen uh the work week decline
particularly in the areas that are
seeing the most robust jobs growth like
education and health right so if you
start to see jobs in those areas slow
down uh what's left uh so um you know I
still continue to have like concerns
about the job market over the summer but
that just reinforces this weakness in
nominal income that we've seen uh so
ultimately you know it all comes down to
like the household budget constraint
Right. And uh to the extent um that
prices are rising in one area, that
means that quantity is going to go down
in other areas.
>> So Neil, just to sort of sum up what
you've been talking about, I think it's
really interesting that you see these
numbers as not representing strength in
the economy, but a sign of weakness in
places like services that is bringing
down the overall inflation rate that
otherwise is getting inflated by certain
goods prices going up uh like home
appliances. At what point is that
weakness necessary to keep inflation
low? In other words, not necessarily a
reason for the Fed to cut, but to hold
where they are so that you can have that
offset in a way that doesn't allow
inflation to really kick back up.
>> I mean, I don't think one rate cut's
really going to change that in any in
any material way. I mean, the Fed Fed
policy still restrictive.
That means they can they can start and
they'd still be restrictive. it doesn't
they don't have to promise like a a
broad swath of of rate cuts. In fact,
they're not doing that. So, um you know,
I don't think a rate cut in July or even
one in September is going to materially
u you know change that dynamic.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Equities high here. The
opening bell about 54 minutes away.
Moments ago, inflation data in the
United States month over month headline
CPI up from 0.1% the previous month to
0.3 in line with expectations. But for
core CPI, it's another downside
surprise. 0.2% against an expectation of
0.3. It's five consecutive months of
softer than expected core CPI. Mike
McKe's back with us for more. Mike,
you've had a second look. What jumps out
to you? Well, I think Neil pointed out
the major tariff implications here. We
do see a 4/10% rise in apparel overall
and a significant rise in footwear up
7/10en of a percent. Uh male footwear in
particular. Now those things come from
China. Other things uh coming from China
that uh go up or from uh other Asian
countries. Furniture as he mentioned was
up 4/10en of a percent. Household
furnishings up 1% and appliances up
1.9%. They were up 8/10en of a percent
last month. Uh a lot of this probably
has to do with the tariffs on steel. We
saw that when uh we had the steel
tariffs in the first Trump
administration that appliance prices
went up. Uh food 310en of a percent
still in line. Uh president added extra
tariffs on tomatoes yesterday but in
June they were down one and a half% and
I know Amarie is anxious to know that
eggs were down 7.4%.
Uh one other thing that comes in uh for
uh the China aspect of it is toy prices
up 1.8%.
So we are seeing some tariff pass
through here. But again uh I would look
at what Neil was saying about service
prices. is they were relatively
restrained up 3/10en of 8%. Uh we saw
medical care and uh auto insurance
prices very tame this month. So some of
the things that we had seen pushing up
inflation in the services categories
have backed off for a while at least.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. Equities
higher in response to some of this.
We're up by 4/10en of 1% on the S&P.
Yields a little bit lower across the
bond market. The yield curve looks like
this. 10ear yields this morning down by
two basis points. Similar move on a 30.
So you don't see the tariff inflation on
a headline, but you start to see it just
a little bit beneath the surface
>> and you start to see what the response
function is of households that they
might be cutting back maybe on eating
out to compensate for the increased
costs elsewhere which uh you wonder on a
compositional level whether this tamps
down overall inflation even as you see
pockets of higher prices in select
areas. Is that the path of travel or is
that just the current state of affairs
as people take stock of exactly what the
new scenario is? We can have that
discussion right now with David Kelly of
JP Morgan Asset Management. David,
welcome to the program, sir. How much
comfort can you take from this morning's
inflation data?
Not a lot. Uh it's a very interesting
report because you can see sort of the
fading of issues that were causing
inflation over the last few years, but
you can also see the beginnings of the
inflation problem related to tariffs. Uh
so if you look at owner's equivalent,
rent, auto insurance, those are the
things that really held inflation up and
they're going away. And the other thing
that really helped this report is we had
a further decline in airline fairs, a
further decline in lodging prices.
There's a lot of weakness in the tourism
industry right now and that's in this
report. But uh when you look at core
goods outside of new autos, we're seeing
those goods prices go up and that's
where you're going to see this tariff
inflation. And we have only seen the
thin end of the wedge here. It takes a
while for the tariffs to get to be
implemented. Takes a while for the
revenue to be collected. Takes a while
for the the inventory to make it to
people's shelves. takes a while for the
retailers to say, "Look, I'm going to
have to mark it up, but it is coming.
Um, so, you know, I fully agree with the
Fed's forecast that inflation is going
to go up between now and the end of the
year, and they've got to stay on their
guard."
>> And yet, David, they also believe it
starts to come back down again. In fact,
for that reason, some officials,
including Governor Waller, believes you
can look through it. Do you think you
can just look through it?
>> Not not yet, because we also have a lot
of fiscal sugar in the first half of
next year. Uh what's going to happen is
that we had a lot of temporary tax
breaks put in for four years, but they
start at the start of this year. They're
not going to adjust income tax
withholding schedules quickly enough.
That means a bumper season for refunds
early next year. And you know, we know
from 2022 that you got supply chain
issues and then you give consumers a lot
of extra cash. What happens? You end up
with inflation. I mean eventually I
think it'll fade in the long run. I am
not an inflation hawk in America. I
think inflation will fade. But I think
it's going to be sustained by some of
the provisions of the OBBBA. Uh and and
I because of that I think the Fed needs
to hold off here. If we got clarity on
tariffs, if we could say this is what
the tariffs rule are and they will go no
higher, then I think that makes it
easier for the Fed. So, you know, I
think the administration really needs to
think about, look, could we please
whatever the tariff policy is, let's
make it and be done with it because this
uncertainty is the very thing that's
making it impossible for the Federal
Reserve to say that that we're out of
the woods or will be out of the woods on
inflation.
>> David, is there a sort of a necessary
weakness that we need to see in consumer
spending and services at this point to
make sure that inflation doesn't take
off? In other words, that pain that Neil
was talking about that you could start
seeing uh on the in the data on the
margins.
>> Well, that's a tough way to do it. I
mean, the way you you want to if you're
worried about a long-term inflation
problem, it's only going to be come
because wage growth sort of compensate
for price increases. Now, we still have
a relatively weak labor force in terms
of their ability to demand wage
increases. Uh, you know, I think again
we have to think a little bit about how
immigration is affecting labor supply.
And again, there's huge question marks
there. But so long as we don't see an
acceleration in wage growth, the
inflation will fade. You It's not just a
matter of consumer spending being weak.
Um, so long as wage growth is
controlled, inflation will fade again.
But I think it's way too early to say
that uh, you know, inflation's coming
down to 2%. We still got to get past
tariffs, we've got to get past the
stimulative effects of this fiscal bill,
and that's really what's causing the
delay in any further Fed easing.
>> Neil Data of Renmax still with us. Neil,
today's about prices, Thursday's about
spending. Let's talk about retail sales.
How do you expect some of our
understanding of prices this morning to
show up in spending and retail sales
later this week?
>> Well, I mean, if goods prices are rising
and the consensus expects nominal
nominal retail sales to rise 3/10, that
basically tells you that real spending
on goods is declining. That's not
exactly an encouraging situation. So um
you know I mean the fact that price
increases are showing up um and you know
it's more or less matching what you see
in the retail sales data um that
basically tells you that the volume of
goods sold is going down. Look it comes
back to P * Q whatever um you know when
whatever goes into price is going to
come out of quantity because the nominal
anchor hasn't really changed. Uh so you
know look I mean I think consumers are
actually quite resistant to higher
prices uh with the exception of the uh
University of Michigan data. Um, if you
look at, you know, other estimates for
inflation expectations, whe whether
that's the the New York Fed survey of
consumer expectations, Atlanta Fed
business inflation expectations,
professional forecasters inflation
expectations,
um, it suggests that, you know, people
are resistant to higher prices and
they're acting as if, you know, if you
look at the areas where people have been
cutting back their consumption, those
are the areas where the prices have been
going up the most. So, it's not
particularly surprising. Um and the
labor markets remain still in a tricky
spot. Um you know while the unemployment
rate remains low, you still have you
know rising increase in you know
discouraged workers. You know people
that are out of the workforce but want a
job now. Um you know companies are
telling you like the small businesses
are saying that there's you know poor
sales are bigger concerns. So, you know,
I I think that that probably reinforces
ongoing weakness in uh in wage growth
and you know, that means that households
don't really have the capacity to absorb
um higher prices and that means that to
cut back. No, and it's a good point,
Neil. And David, I guess that if you
take what Neil is saying, the idea that
you do see real price resistance by
consumers, and if you do see this sort
of compensating for the extra expense in
goods by pulling back on services, what
would the harm be for the Fed to cut
rates by just 25 basis points or 50
basis points?
>> Well, the any, you know, any problems
the economy is facing is not really
about interest rates being too high. And
I think that I think, you know, I think
we have to think carefully about
long-term policies about helping the
labor force grow, about helping free
enterprise and reduce regulation and
reduce barriers to to business and and
you know, I think we need to focus on
that. Um, I don't think that interest
rates are too high right now. I think
the Fed's the steward of the dollar and
of our inflation outlook in the long run
and they've said they're committed to 2%
inflation. I think they should stick to
their guns. Um, and you know, if the
economy gets into trouble, it's not
because they kept rates too high.
>> Neil, I just want to give you the final
word just on housing, which is something
you've been following now for months and
months and months and flagging the
weakness here. Why is that so important
to you, Neil?
>> Well, because it undercuts an argument
that was just made, which is that, you
know, that interest rates are fine,
right? I mean, obviously housing isn't
weakening because of tariffs or anything
else. Housing's weakening because rates
are too high. and you're seeing um you
know a rising pile of uh completed new
unsold inventory. I mean that hasn't
been as high uh that's that's been
rising um you know over the last year or
so and that's starting to weigh on home
prices which we see. So you know I I
think that the housing market does
provide some evidence that interest
rates are restraining economic activity.
>> Is that the Fed's fault or is that the
fault of Congress? nail.
>> No, but the reason the reason we're
seeing that sorry the re reason uh the
reason we're got trouble in the housing
market is not because rates are too high
now. It's because rates were way too low
for way too long after the great
financial crisis causing prices to jack
up to a level that cannot be supported
at normal mortgage rates. There's
nothing wrong with mortgage rates. The
problem is home prices which are too
high because rates were too low for too
long. Well, mortgage rates are running 6
and a half to 7% and wage growth is
rising just 3%. So, I think the math is
actually getting quite challenging for
most people. That's why housing is not
working.
>> Well, it's challenging, but only because
home prices are the anomaly here.
They're just too high because rates were
too low for too long.
>> I'm sitting back now, Jensen. I thought
you'd continue. You know, D of Remac
David Kelly JP Morgan to the two of you.
Appreciate it. Thank you. A robust
debate there at the end. Just on
mortgage rates, this is the issue. Is it
the Fed's problem or the fact that we
just passed one big beautiful bill which
a lot of people think will keep yields
elevated particularly at the long end?
>> Yeah. Or is it the fault of with respect
to the housing market? Is it the fault
of not building enough and some of the
generational wealth? Look, you can take
two different people and obviously have
three different approaches to the same
issue which is a reason why it's unclear
exactly what the remedy to some of these
issues.
>> What happened when the Fed cut last year
didn't really affect mortgage rates.
Mortgage rates are still climbing.
Mortgage rates are still challenging.
But to Neil's point, this is a huge
problem. How do you get on the property
ladder when you have a mortgage rate of
6%. In this report though, housing costs
biggest factor 210 of a percent rise in
June. Essentially a tame reading
according to our T-ive blog compared
elevated figures we've seen the past
several years. So maybe the actual
housing costs are coming down, but the
issue of course mortgages.
>> So guess what? We had the data 20
minutes ago and we've settled absolutely
nothing. It is the fifth consecutive
read of softer than expected core CPI.
details just encouraging some of the
thinking around tariffs starting to come
into higher prices. You just don't see
it at the headline level right now and
Neil Dutter broke down as to why
>> this is the reason why people just buy
Nvidia because ultimately if you can't
parse through this and you can't decide
on anything well you can decide on one
kind of secular story and that's what
people are doing.
>> Futures this morning positive by a third
of 1% the gains continue Nvidia AMD.
Let's get you an update on a story
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahra Arnard.
Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Recapping the latest economic
data, underlying US inflation in June
rose by less than expected for a fifth
straight month. As you mentioned, core
CPI rose 210 of a percent from May,
lower than estimates, calling for a
3/10en% increase. The print was dragged
down by car prices. Meanwhile, Fed chair
J. Pal has asked the central bank's
inspector general to review the $2.5
billion renovation of its Washington
headquarters. Some Republicans and Trump
appointees have criticized Powell for
cost overruns around the project. It's a
new line of attack as the president
continues to criticize POW for not
cutting interest rates further. And this
morning's CPI print could bolster his
case. Meanwhile, Starbucks will require
its corporate employees to work 4 days a
week in office starting in late
September. The coffee giant currently
requires employees in person 3 days a
week. CEO Brian Nickel, who initially
wasn't required to relocate when he was
hired last year, now has a residence and
office in Seattle, according to the
company. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Every time I've seen these
stories, I say the same thing. They're
still doing that.
>> I know.
>> They're still doing that.
>> Yes. And they have they've gone with
this kind of protocol before. It didn't
work.
>> Well, the CEO, I guess, had a move,
right, to really bring down the hammer.
>> And apparently, he's got an office now
and he's ready to go. Okay, good news.
Up next on the program setting you up
for the day ahead. Plus, Danny Burgerer
with your morning movers on the latest
on the big banks. JP Morgan down in the
pre-market by 0.5%.
[Music]
President Trump said numerous times he's
not going to fire J Pal. There's been a
lot of talk of a shadow Fed chair
causing confusion in advance uh of his
or her nomination. It'd be very
confusing for the market for a former
Fed chair to stay on. Also, I think I
have the best job in town. Uh I will do
what President Trump wants. the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson earlier on on
Bloomberg surveillance. I think we made
some progress this morning. Some
additional clarity on the race to
replace Fed Chair J Pal.
>> He said the process is underway. He said
he is part of that process, but putting
a little bit more distance between part
of that process as a potential candidate
or individual that is interviewing these
candidates and guiding the president. He
also talked about the fact that it was
very clear to me that this
administration definitely does not want
JPAL to stay on as a governorship. And I
think it was pretty clear indication
that potentially that's not going to be
happening.
>> He said his or her, you pointed that out
in terms of who the next bed chair could
be. All right, Mickey Bowman. Is it now
going to be who knows?
>> You know, Kevin, Kevin, Scott, you know,
>> Chris and Mickey
>> and Mickey. Thank you. You're much
better at that than I am.
>> Never mind. Okay.
>> It's not a skill worth acquiring. All
right. Come on. Let's keep going.
>> Let's develop that.
>> 36 minutes away from the oven and bell
equity futures. Don't do that. Positive.
No one wants that. Up by 0.4% on the
S&P. I love this job. On the Nasdaq 100,
we're half by 0.7. Let's get you some
morning movers. Here's Danny Burger.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. A recap of the banks beaten a
raise from both JP Morgan and City. For
both of them, really strong trading
results for JP Morgan. A surprise uh
gain when it comes to their investment
banking. Still, shares are a little
softer for that. They gain for city for
wells falling after a miss. Meanwhile,
it looks like both AMD and Nvidia will
once again be able to sell more AI chips
into China. a big hit they had taken on
those US restrictions with seemed to
reverse. So both those gaining more than
5% finally ending it with core
announcing a $6 billion project in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania to build a new
AI data center. John
>> Danny, thank you. Some of the names to
watch going into the opening bell. Some
of the things to look for through the
rest of this week. Today, President
Trump participating in an energy and
innovation event in Pennsylvania. Look
out for some comments there. Looking
ahead to tomorrow, more bank earnings
from Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, and
Morgan Stanley. plus PPI Thursday,
retail sales, another round of jobless
claims, and then finally, a useless
piece of information, according to some
of you, not me, according to some of
you, the UMIC consumer sentiment survey
before the weekend.
>> To me, the big takeaway from today is
strength. That's what we're seeing from
the banks. We're seeing consumer credit
hold in. And that's what we're seeing in
terms of inflation not coming in
particularly hot.
>> Not coming on the headline. That's
something this administration, I'm sure
the president is waiting his four
minutes to send out the truth social.
This is another yet good inflation
report, but under the surface you're
seeing a little bit of tariff impact,
>> some resilience in the United States for
America. Coming up tomorrow, a lineup
looks like this. George Canas of MUFG,
Cara Murphy of Kestra, Phil Camperelli
of JP Morgan, and Senator Bill Hagerty
of Tennessee from New York. This is
Bloomberg.